ART 101 3 hours 
Drawing I 
Introduction to the fundamentals of observation and rendering, perspective and  composition, using a variety of drawing mediums. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
ART 151 3 hours 
Two-Dimensional Design 
A foundational course in understanding the elements and principles of two-dimensional  design composition and color theory, as well as methods for creative problem solving.  A studio-skills class utilizing a variety of mediums in a related series of projects. Meets  foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
ART 152 3 hours 
Visual Communications 
An introduction to the graphic design industry, with emphasis in visual problem  solving, a basic understanding of typography, color and composition as well as the  implementation of the various additional elements of design. 
ART 154 1 hour 
Digital Tools: Illustrator 
This course focuses on the development of drawing and design skills using Adobe  Illustrator, the industry standard software for vector image and logo generation.  
ART 156 1 hour 
Digital Tools: Photoshop 
This course focuses on the development of painting and image editing skills using  Adobe Photoshop, the industry standard software for bitmap image generation  and digital photo manipulation. 
ART 157 1 hour 
Digital Tools: InDesign 
This course focuses on the development of print layout and compositing skills,  manipulating type and images, using Adobe InDesign, the industry leading software  for page layout construction and desktop publishing. 
ART 160 3 hours 
Contemporary Strategies in Art 
This course is designed to calibrate freshman studio art majors via collaborative engagement  and exploration of processes, theories, and art works relevant to producing art in our  present age.  
ART 162 1 hour 
Digital Tools: Painter 
An introductory course focusing on digital image creation, utilizing the drawing and painting controls found in Corel Painter. 
ART 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
ART 172 2-3 hours 
Art Appreciation 
A study of art through a historical survey. This course introduces the student to the  great masters and art periods of the past while broadening the student's appreciation  and understanding of art. May satisfy the art-portion of a foundational core fine arts  requirement. This course is offered through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
ART 203 3 hours 
Drawing II 
Advanced conceptual approaches as they relate to drawing as an artistic end.  Prerequisites: ART 101 and ART 151. 
ART 210 3 hours 
Introduction to Art Education/Pre-Art Therapy 
A survey of the history and philosophy of art education. The course utilizes the disciplines  of art criticism, history, aesthetics, and production to acquire information, develop  resources, and create a variety of learning experiences for students of various  developmental levels.  
ART 221 3 hours 
Painting I 
Beginning experiences in the materials, theory, techniques and composition used in  historical and contemporary styles of oil painting. Consideration of the work of  individual painters introduces various conceptual approaches to painting.  Prerequisites: ART 101 and ART 151.  
ART 251 3 hours 
Typography 
An introduction to the essential principles of typography; the design and expressive  capacities of letter forms are explored through historical study, typesetting assignments,  discussions, and studio projects. Prerequisites: ART 101, ART 151, ART 152, and ART 154. 
ART 253 3 hours 
Foundations of Photography 
Provides ground-level introduction to the tools, concepts, and techniques of  photography. Students will explore composition, style, color, tonality, and light.  Strong emphasis on full comprehension and technical mastery of dSLRs, digital  processing, and color-managed output. Students must provide their own dSLR cameras.  Prerequisite: ART 156. 
ART 254 3 hours 
Illustration I 
An introductory course to the art and business of illustration with an emphasis in  developing conceptual skills, a personal visual voice and unique stylistic approach.  Coursework will include the production of editorial, promotional and personal  illustrations. Prerequisites: ART 101 and ART 151. 
ART 257 3 hours 
Layout and Prepress 
An editorial design course, with a focus on page layout construction, digital pre-press and  tabloid design. Students will learn terms and skills necessary for a career in the editorial  design industry. Projects may include book covers, brochures, magazines and newspaper  layouts. Prerequisites: ART 101, ART 151, ART 154, ART 156, ART 157, and ART 251. 
ART 261 3 hours 
Film and Darkroom 
Maintains the heritage of analog photography by exploring silver halide films and  various darkroom processes. Emphasis on shooting and processing black-and-white  film and printing paper prints with enlargers. Color films and processing discussed,  as well as experimental darkroom techniques. The course culminates with large  format view camera work. Students must present a 35mm film camera in good order to  enroll. Prerequisite: ART 253.  
ART 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
ART 271 3 hours 
Three-Dimensional Design 
A foundational course in understanding the elements and principles of three dimensional design composition, as well as creative problem solving. A studio skills  class utilizing a variety of mediums in a related series of projects. Meets foundational  core participation in the arts requirement.  
ART 272 3 hours 
Sculpture I 
Three-dimensional studies on form as practiced through art history, classical to abstract  representations of the human form and architectural sculptural methods(welding and additive  methods). Materials for this course cover clay, stone and metal. Prerequisite: ART 271. 
ART 275 3 hours 
Metals I 
Beginning metalworking projects use various techniques, with precious and non precious metals. Soldering, enameling, metal casting and stone setting are covered.  Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
ART 281 3 hours 
Ceramics: Handbuilt Forms 
An introduction to basic clay formation techniques with an emphasis on the  sculptural and asymmetrical potentials of hand constructed clay forms. Covers  essentials of the ceramic process: forming, glazing, and transformation through  firing. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
ART 300 2 hours 
Art for Teachers 
Opportunities for the development of skills and learning experiences for use in the  elementary classroom. Introduction to the components of Discipline-Based Art  Education through lecture, studio projects and out of class assignments.  
ART 302 3 hours 
Figure Drawing 
Intermediate level drawing course with emphasis in rendering the human figure.  Prerequisite: ART 101. 
ART 309 2 hours 
Secondary Art Methods 
Examine methodology and teaching practices in art, organizing and writing the art  curriculum, classroom management, assessment of student progress, and general  strategies and methods for conducting an art program for the middle and high  school level students. In addition, studio work will be utilized to create a portfolio  of art projects suitable for middle and high school students. Written assignments for  the course will be added to the professional portfolio.  
ART 310 3 hours 
Elementary Art Education 
Theory and foundations for the development of skills and learning experiences for use in  the elementary art classroom. The Discipline-Based Art Education model will be utilized  in preparing lesson plans, studio projects and practical application content.  
ART 311 3 hours 
Western Art History I 
A survey of architecture, sculpture, and painting from prehistory to the Late Gothic  in Europe and the Near East.  
ART 313 3 hours 
Western Art History II 
A survey of architecture, sculpture and painting from the Proto-Renaissance to the  Modern era in Western Europe and the United States. Prerequisite: ART 311.  
ART 316 3 hours 
Asian Art History 
A survey of the arts of South and East Asia including India, China, Japan, and Korea with an emphasis on understanding works within their cultural contexts.  
ART 317 3 hours 
History of Photography 
Invites students not only to know the factual, international history of the medium, but  to consider its implications for society and culture in general. Projects and assignments  will fully acquaint students with the rudimentary mechanics of optics and cameras in  their earliest development, as well as major photographers and their styles. Camera  required. Prerequisites: ART 253 and ART 261. 
ART 320 3 hours 
Acrylic Painting 
An introduction to the techniques, materials and processes involved in acrylic painting. The  course will focus on various aspects of acrylic painting on a mixed variety of surfaces and  utilizing various varnishes, mediums and brush techniques. Prerequisite: ART 101. 
ART 322 3 hours 
Water-Based Media 
An introduction to distinctive techniques, materials, and processes involved in  water-based painting. The course will explore watercolor, gouache, and ink wash.  Prerequisite: ART 101. 
ART 324 3 hours 
Painting II 
An intermediate level course where students engage in the advancement of their technical  proficiency, explore a greater degree of self-initiated projects, and engage in in-depth critical analysis of contemporary painting. Prerequisite: ART 221. 
ART 344 3 hours 
Photojournalism 
Explores documentary photography from spot news to long-form photo essays.  Topics include journalistic theories, ethics, and the social functions of journalism.  All assignments include photography and written captions, and in some cases longer  writings. Camera required. Prerequisites: ART 253 and ART 261. 
ART 345 3 hours 
Relief and Serigraphy  
Handprinting as an expressive medium is investigated through relief and screen  printing processes, including linoleum block printing, woodcut printing, cut stencils,  drawing fluid/screen filler use, and photo-based silkscreen. This course serves as an  introduction to the essential tools, materials, and techniques related to relief and  serigraphy. Readings and discussion pertaining to the history of radical thought  expressed via prints and the subsequent dissemination of printed materials will  augment studio projects. 
ART 346 3 hours 
Portraiture 
Provides the opportunity to explore portraiture in depth, including conventional,  environmental, expressive and experimental work. Camera required. Prerequisite: ART 253. 
ART 347 3 hours 
Intaglio and Lithography 
Handprinting as an expressive medium is investigated through intaglio and  lithographic processes. Projects explore the use of hardground etching, soft-ground  etching, whiteground, aquatint, chine colle, drypoint, photo etching and plate and  stone lithography. This course serves as an introduction to the essential tools,  materials, and techniques related to intaglio and lithography. Readings and  discussion pertaining to the history of radical thought expressed via prints and the  subsequent dissemination of printed materials will augment studio projects. 
ART 351 3 hours 
Product ID 
A design course with emphasis in creating a product identity from concept to  completion. This course will discuss but not be limited to, conceptual design,  logo/logotype development, packaging design, advertising design and the  development of promotional materials. Professional presentation and client skills  will also be discussed. Prerequisites: ART 251 and ART 257. 
ART 353 3 hours 
Commercial Photography 
Introduces various commercial photo categories and demonstrates ways to make  a living with a camera. Emphasis is always on the marketing and stylistic needs of  clients rather than the personal style of the photographer. Covers images for  various facets of marketing and retail: advertising, fashion, product and food photos,  and selling stock. Camera required. Prerequisite: ART 253. 
ART 356 4 hours 
Web Design 
This course will teach students design fundamentals for interactive media with a focus on  designing user interfaces for the internet. Students will be introduced to the vocabulary,  foundational technology, design elements, and techniques for creating interactive media.  Projects will cover a range of topics that will introduce students to the many uses for  interactive design, identifying, and designing for different target audiences, and the basics  of how to deliver the finished product to those audiences. Additionally, through the  projects and class exercises, students will be introduced to and gain a better  understanding of industry standard tools. Prerequisite: ART 156. 
ART 357 3 hours 
History of Graphic Art 
A design course focusing in depth on the stylistic history of graphic design, from  Gutenberg to the present. Weekly studio assignments will be given with specific  historical and stylistic goals. The purpose of this course is to create a strong  awareness of historical styles and to develop artwork applicable to a working  portfolio. Prerequisites: ART 251 and ART 257.  
ART 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
ART 365 3 hours 
Illustration 2: Visual Narrative 
An intermediate level course focusing on continued development of the illustrator's personal  voice while producing a unified series of location based sequential images useful for a  professional working portfolio. Students will continue to explore new media, refine  technique, and discuss essential business practices.  
ART 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
ART 372 3 hours 
Sculpture II 
Intermediate use of technical skills and conceptual issues of creating sculpture with  form and space. Prerequisites: ART 271 and ART 272 or permission of the instructor. 
ART 380 3 hours 
Ceramics: Wheelthrowing 
The use of the potter's wheel for throwing vessel and sculptural forms. Form and  surface design are considered, as well as various firing techniques. Meets the  foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
ART 382 2 hours 
The Christian and the Arts 
Seminar that deals with topics related to the Christian and the Arts emphasizing the  development of critical abilities via the discussion of readings, student presentations,  and writing assignments. Prerequisite: Junior status. 
ART 383 1 hour 
The Christian and the Arts—Art Education 
Seminar that deals with topics related to the Christian and the Arts for Art Education  majors emphasizing the development of critical abilities via the discussion of readings,  student presentations, and writing assignments. Prerequisites: Art Education major and junior status. 
ART 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one hour  of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  
ART 413 3 hours 
Contemporary Art 
Introduces the student to a wide range of contemporary art, emphasizing the  development of analytical and critical skills. Prerequisite: Junior status.  
ART 417 3 hours 
Advanced Ceramics 
Largely self-directed, this course will give the student opportunity to further skills  and concepts developed in their previous handbuilding and wheelthrowing courses.  This course will also allow for exploration in making clay, glazes, and experimental  firings. Prerequisites: ART 281 and ART 380. 
ART 418 3 hours 
Critical Foundations for Studio Practice 
This course centers around the discussion of formative essays, interviews and films,  presenting key concepts as a support for creation of work in the studio. Prerequisite:  ART 160.  
ART 441 3 hours  
Advanced Printmaking  
Advanced studies in printmaking, addressing the refining of skills, and the individual  exploration of one or two printmaking processes. Prerequisites: ART 241 and ART 342. 
ART 445 3 hours  
Illustration 3: Thesis 
An advanced level course focusing on a large scale thesis project of personal imagery for  the student's senior show and portfolio.  
ART 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
ART 456 4 hours 
Web Animation 
Students will build on the skills learned in ART 356, by focusing on industry standard  animation and interactive software for the world wide web. This course will further  develop each student’s conceptual, interactive page layout, and web programming skill  sets. Emphasis will be placed on fully utilizing Flash’s unique animation, interactivity and  scripting controls, to create a self-promotional website useful in the pursuit of a future  design career. Prerequisite: ART 356 or COS 143. 
ART 457 3 hours 
Portfolio I 
Advanced design course emphasizing development of a working portfolio. Projects may  include book covers, advertisements, brochures, posters, editorial design, logotypes,  and corporate identity campaigns. Prerequisite: ART 351 and ART 357. 
ART 461 3 hours 
Experimental Photography 
Encourages the student to explore personal photographic aesthetics, vision, and statement  with an eye toward galleries and markets or a personal portfolio. Work would most likely  be conceptual and expressive in nature. The course also provides wide-open opportunity  for technical experimentation. Camera required. Pre-requisites: ART 253 and ART 261. 
ART 471 3 hours 
Sculpture III 
Advanced use of technical skills and conceptual issues of creating sculpture with form  and space. Studio projects employ additive, subtractive and casting methods utilizing  such materials as clay, plaster, wood, plastics, and metals. Prerequisite: ART 372 or  permission of the instructor. 
ART 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
ART 481 3 hours 
Senior Thesis I 
Senior Thesis I serves as a culmination of students' undergraduate art making endeavor,  providing guidance in the development of a body of work to be presented in a final  exhibition with thematic and aesthetic cohesiveness. Class includes a trip to a significant  contemporary art destination. Prerequisite: Senior status. 
ART 484 3 hours 
Senior Thesis II 
Senior Thesis II provides continued support as students prepare for their senior  thesis exhibition. This course also serves as a seminar devoted to the  conceptualization of a career in the arts, given its many forms. Students will also  gain exposure to practicalities of life as a working artists such as funding, grant writing, exhibiting, and pursuit of higher education. 
ART 485 3 hours 
Senior Exhibition 
Creation of a body of work for the student’s senior exhibition with thematic and  aesthetic cohesiveness. Students should plan for the costs associated with the  exhibition. Prerequisite: Senior status.  
ART 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
FMP 125 1 hour 
Film and Media Production: New Majors Orientation 
An introduction to the Film and Media Production major, focusing on the work  habits, mindset, and requirements for success in the major with preliminary work on  discovering one’s voice as a visual storyteller. Course includes the development of  critical skills such as self-reflection, creativity, observation, collaboration, story  development, and awareness of the impact of one’s creative work on audiences.  Offered Fall semester. 
FMP 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
FMP 185 2 hours 
Digital Tools: After Effects 
An introduction to Adobe After Effects software for motion graphics and animation.  Prerequisite: ART 156 or CAC 156. Offered January Interterm.  
FMP 215 3 hours 
Audio Production 
An exploration of the principles and applications of digital audio in today’s media  industries. Topics discussed include sound theory, microphones, digital audio  fundamentals, systems theory and computer- and hardware-based recording and  editing. Emphasis is on communicating a creative and technically excellent message.  Offered Fall and Spring semesters. 
FMP 220 3 hours 
Film and Video Production 
A hands-on immersion in visual storytelling using single camera film-style shooting  techniques. Course includes digital cinematography, nonlinear editing, lighting, audio  for video/film and producing with an emphasis on creative storytelling and visual  aesthetics. Offered Fall and Spring semesters. 
FMP 230 3 hours 
Scriptwriting 
This course covers the theory and practice of nonfiction writing (e.g., scripting for clients  and documentary) and fiction writing (e.g., short film screenplay and television series). 
FMP 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
FMP 300 1-2 hours 
Media Laboratory 
Two hours of credit may be earned per semester by students holding top leadership  positions in WTUR, the campus radio station or Envision Productions, the  department’s in-house television and video production team. One hour of credit  may be earned per semester by those holding secondary positions in those  organizations. One or two hours of credit may also be earned by assisting with  approved departmental production projects. A maximum of six hours may be earned.  Prerequisite: Permission of instructor. 
FMP 310 3 hours 
Introduction to TV Writing 
An introduction to writing television drama and comedy beyond the principles  covered in FMP 230. Includes generating ideas, breaking a story, and how to apply  the essentials of narrative storytelling to traditional half-hour and one-hour time  formats. Prerequisite: FMP 230. Offered occasionally.  
FMP 312 2 hours 
Steadicam® Workshop 
A workshop covering the proper safety, operation, and creative use of the  Steadicam® camera support system for cinematography. Offered January Interterm.  
FMP 320 3 hours 
Advanced Screenwriting 
An advanced exploration of the screenplay format, leading to the creation of a full length screenplay. Includes dramatic theory from Aristotle’s Poetics, the essentials  of writing visually, story structure, beat sheets, outlines, treatments, creating story  beats, mastering subtext, and finding one’s voice as a writer. Prerequisite: FMP 230.  Offered occasionally.  
FMP 335 3 hours 
International Production 
A team-based experience shooting a video or film project internationally including  research and pre-production planning, exploration of cultural and technical issues  that impact field production, and significant gathering of footage with the goal of  later telling an impactful nonfiction story. Offered Interterm of even years and as  needed. Prerequisites: FMP 215 and FMP 220. 
FMP 340 3 hours 
Documentary Filmmaking 
An exploration of the art of documentary film. Includes critique of notable  documentaries, the study of multiple approaches to nonfiction storytelling and the  creation of a festival-ready short documentary including pre-production,  production, and post-production. Prerequisite: FMP 220. 
FMP 350 3 hours 
Media Theory and Ethics 
An overview of media communication theories and ethical challenges in the media  workplace. Prerequisite: JRN 255.  
FMP 351 3 hours 
Media Performance 
An introduction to the theory and practice of television and radio announcing,  commercial and corporate voice-over work, voice-over for animation, and film acting. 
FMP 352 3 hours 
History and Criticism of Film 
A survey of film history, artistic growth, and early influences and techniques of  filmmaking. Theories for critiquing films are emphasized. Prerequisite JRN 255. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
FMP 355 3 hours 
Multi-Camera Live Production 
An overview of multi-camera live production processes, techniques and personnel  in the studio setting and on-location. Students will plan and produce programming,  functioning as a production team. Included required lab. Prerequisite: FMP 220. Offered  Fall semesters. 
FMP 358 3 hours 
Sundance Study Trip 
An exploration of the intersections between faith and independent film including  reading and writing, followed by a week-long trip to the Sundance Film Festival.  Offered January interterm by application. 
FMP 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
FMP 365 3 hours 
Inside the Entertainment Industry  
An overview of the people, skills, and processes required for success in the film and  television industries from both business and creative perspectives. Taught by  entertainment industry professionals in Los Angeles as the academic component of Taylor  University's semester-long Hollywood Internship Program. Prerequisites: FMP major, junior  or senior standing, acceptance into TUHIP program. 
FMP 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
FMP 375 3 hours 
Post-Production Methods 
Video editing principles and practices, leading to the certification test for Avid Media  Composer. Advanced color correction for film and television using DaVinci Resolve.  Prerequisite: FMP 220. Offered Spring semester.  
FMP 388 3 hours 
Media, Faith, and Culture 
An exploration of the intersections between media, popular culture and the gospel.  Topics include evangelical responses to popular culture through history, religious  broadcasting, religious filmmaking, media in the local church setting, media in global  missions and portrayals of Christ and Christians on TV and film. Prerequisite: JRN  255; junior standing; production or layout experience is required. Offered Spring semester. 
FMP 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Pass/fail only. Offered primarily during Summer. 
FMP 430 3 hours 
Producing for Clients 
This course develops the skills required to create a client-driven video or film  production project. Producing tasks including pre-production, budgeting, scheduling  and client relations are emphasized. Students work in teams with an outside  organization to produce a professional video or film project. Prerequisite: FMP 220.  Offered Fall semester of even years. 
FMP 440 3 hours 
Narrative Filmmaking 
Students work in teams to create a festival-ready short film including scripting, pre production, production, and post-production. Students will develop an ability to  integrate Christian thought and storytelling. Prerequisites: FMP 220 and 230. 
FMP 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
FMP 455 3 hours 
Directing and Cinematography 
An advanced production course leading to deeper understanding of image creation,  both in theory and practice. Emphasizes camera technology and associated  equipment such as wireless focus, aperture, and video as well as advanced lighting  techniques. Course includes visualizing a script, the director/cinematographer  collaboration in storytelling, how visual theories inform storytelling, and how a  director directs talent. Course involves both individual and group work. Prerequisite:  FMP 220. Offered Fall semester. 
FMP 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
FMP 485 3 hours 
Senior Capstone 
Seniors will complete a senior portfolio and prepare for employment and graduate  school. Offered Spring semester. 
FMP 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
FMP 492 8-16 hours 
Internship 
Professional semester of supervised internship in a work setting related to the  major field of study. Prerequisites: Completion of departmental core and approval of the  department faculty. Pass/fail only. 
FMP 493 12-13 hours 
Internship
Taylor University Hollywood Internship Program Entertainment industry internship completed as part of Taylor University’s  Hollywood Internship Program.  