ANT 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.
ANT 200 3 hours 
Cultural Anthropology 
An introduction to the principles of cultural anthropology, including the analysis of  major anthropological theories and concepts and an examination of social institutional  arrangements in small-scale societies. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general  social science requirement.  
ANT 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.
ANT 280 3 hours 
Anthropology of Study Abroad, Short-term Mission, and Tourism
The recent explosion of global travel for relatively short periods brings travelers into transient contact with people in different places. Such travel may have educational,  recreational, religious, or service goals. Through anthropological readings, this course  examines the nature of the intercultural encounters experienced on these trips, the  motivations and outcomes of these trips for both travelers and hosts, and considers a  wide variety of related dynamics. Students will be coached in engaging in research on  course-related themes or in conducting research in preparation for their own  upcoming global trip. Meets foundational core cross-cultural requirement; and civic  engagement or general social science requirement.  
ANT 300 3 hours 
Qualitative Research Methods  
This course is designed to teach students how to collect, analyze, and write up  qualitative data. Topics include conducting and coding field notes, interviewing,  participant-observation, discourse analysis, as well as the ethical treatment of human  subjects and the ethical code for anthropological research. 
ANT 315 3 hours 
The Anthropology of Magic, Witchcraft, and Religion 
This course provides an overview of anthropological approaches to the cross-cultural study of  magic, witchcraft, and religion. It focuses on topics such as mythology, symbolism, ritual, magic,  sorcery, witchcraft, shamanism, ancestor worship, dreams and visions, spirit possession, and  rituals of purification. It will include a focus on integrating anthropological understandings with  theological ones. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science requirement.  
ANT 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
ANT 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.
ANT 380 3 hours 
Anthropology of Sin, Shame, and Guilt 
This course involves a dialogue between anthropology and theology. Through anthropological  readings, students will explore in different cultures the vocabulary of moral evil and  the ways in which children are socialized morally. It will consider the ways in which  cultures impact conscience, moral reasoning, and ethical understandings. The course  will give special attention to the role of shame and guilt in the moral experience of  people from diverse cultures. Finally, the course will consider the role of these  dynamics and realities in the lives and experiences of Christians around the world. 
ANT 390 3 hours 
Anthropology of Kinship, Sex, and Gender 
Through ethnographic readings, this course explores kinship, marriage, sex, and gender across  diverse cultures. It will review older anthropological topics such as the incest taboo, polygamy,  inheritance, gender, alliance, and descent. It will also examine recent topics, such as sex  tourism, mail order brides, transnational adoptions, same-sex sexualities, new reproductive  technologies, surrogacy, transgenderism, and the commercialization of sexuality (in  pornography, sex work, and sex trafficking). Themes of the course will be related to issues of  globalization, power, religion, and recent human rights discourses. The course will foster a  dialog of anthropology with theology. 
ANT 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
ANT 420 3 hours 
Psychological Anthropology 
This course studies the interaction of cultural and mental processes. It explores ways in which  enculturation within a particular cultural group shapes processes of human cognition, identity,  emotion, perception, motivation, moral reasoning, states of consciousness, suffering, and  mental health. The course will focus on variable cultural patterns related to such things as  honor and shame, guilt, anger, envy, conscience, and suffering as well as to cultural practices  involving fasting, confession, dream interpretation, vision seeking, spirit possession, and healing.  It will include a description and analysis of several culture-bound syndromes. 
ANT 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
ANT 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
ANT 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open  to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
ANT 493 2 hours 
Anthropology Integrative Seminar 
This course provides students with the opportunity to approach the field of  anthropology holistically and integrate faith and anthropological insights. Prerequisite:  Instructor permission and senior status required. 
ANT 498 1 hour 
Anthropology Senior Thesis 
Students will complete a senior thesis that demonstrates an ability to apply  anthropological perspectives through a theoretical or methodological analysis of a  topic they have chosen. Prerequisite: Instructor permission and senior status required. 
JUS 100 3 hours 
Introduction to Criminal Justice 
A survey of the organization, administration, and function of law enforcement, the  courts, and corrections in an historical, legal, and contemporary context. An  emphasis is placed on both offenses and offenders at each stage of the process. This  course is offered through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
JUS 347 3 hours 
Courts 
This course will examine the American court system and the components of the legal  system that feed cases into the system, in both the civil and criminal legal process.  Students will learn about the many elements of the court system and their interlocking  relationships to the judicial process. Jurisdictional issues between state, local, and  federal courts will be examined, as well as the trial and appellate process. Students  will have the opportunity to do a paper on a high profile case and review the social  impact of decisions. Emphasis will be on the criminal justice system since criminal  cases make up the majority of court cases. This course is offered through Taylor University  Online (TUO).  
SWK 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
SWK 200 3 hours 
Explorations in Social Work 
This course intends to assist the prospective social worker in gaining awareness and  understanding of basic tenets of the social work profession, Code of Ethics, guiding principles  and values, and of practice settings. Throughout the course, students are given the opportunity  to explore their interest in and potential for a career in social work. The course will also assist  students in understanding social welfare systems and their development, and how social welfare  policy affects people across the globe. As students learn about the various social issues that  social workers help to change, students will explore how their Christian faith commands their  reflection and action in tackling these issues.  
SWK 225 3 hours 
Diversity and the Disenfranchised 
A hybrid course integrating theory and application of concepts through case study  dealing with issues related to diversity, oppression, discrimination, human rights, and  social justice. Dimensions related to women’s issues, immigration and acculturation,  religion and spirituality, social class, and sexual orientation will be explored. 
SWK 231 3 hours 
Social Welfare
Historical Perspectives and Development This course follows the development of social welfare efforts from early civilizations  to the present time. The course focuses on the emergence of the profession of  social work and explores the question “Am I my brother’s keeper?” in the light of  biblical principles. This course is offered through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
SWK 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
SWK 320 3 hours 
Unleashing the Oppressed 
This course is designed to provide the student with the necessary knowledge, values  and skills to empower people who fall into “at-risk population” groups. Those groups  who are at-risk for prejudice and discrimination typically include mental disability,  developmental disability, sexual orientation, women, elderly, and religious diversity.  Service-learning component provides interaction with a variety of community-based  agencies. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science requirement.  Open to all students. 
SWK 340 3 hours 
Working with Children 
This course is a social work elective that is designed to provide an overview of the  broad field of child welfare. Topics include the role of the family in the care of  children, the history and current state of care of children, current problems such as  child abuse and neglect, the impact of poverty and diversity in the well-being of  children, and responses to children in need such as foster care, adoption, residential  programs, the courts and school-based services. Application is made through  readings, experiential activities, agency visits and guest speakers. A service learning  component provides interaction with community-based agencies. Open to all students.  Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
SWK 351 3 hours 
Social Work Process and Practice I 
First in a 4-course practice sequence designed to provide the student with the  necessary knowledge, values for ethical decision making and skills for successful  practice with individuals at the generalist social work practitioner level. Develops  understanding of the nature and process of social work practice, principles and  techniques of the planned change process. Develops students’ ability for self awareness and for understanding the nature of clienthood. Prerequisites: PSY 100; SWK  200; SWK 225; COM 210 or COM 320; ANT 200 or SOC 100 or 210. Offered Fall semester. 
SWK 354 3 hours 
Social Work Process and Practice II 
Second in the 4-course practice sequence. Enables further development of generalist  social work skills with various client systems. Areas of group dynamics, ethical issues,  developmental levels and diversity are emphasized. Participation in a group  experience is required. Prerequisite: SWK 351. Offered Spring semester. 
SWK 355 3 hours 
Helping Troubled Families 
Introduces family systems theory, as well as the history and development of family  interventions. Presents the major approaches of working with families and provides  the opportunity to role play application of these approaches. Open to all students.  Offered Fall semester. 
SWK 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
SWK 362 3 hours 
Social Policy 
Discusses topics related to social welfare history, public policy, and social welfare  policies that exist in today’s society and how they impact those most dependent on  social programs. Examines social programs in light of the problems they address, the  service they provide, and their effectiveness. Addresses contemporary social issues  in light of public funding decisions.  
SWK 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
SWK 380 3 hours 
Understanding Suffering, Grief, and Loss 
Provides a basic introduction to crucial issues related to suffering and affliction,  both self-imposed and those related to the human condition. Bereavement, grief  and loss across the life span will be explored. Contemporary issues related to  death and dying and the roles of social institutions and services to persons affected  by suffering, death and loss will be covered. Issues will be examined based on  difference in gender, culture, ethnicity and religion and in light of historic and  contemporary Christian faith. Open to all students. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
SWK 393 4 hours 
Junior Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum  experience. Students spend time in a social work setting learning how an agency  functions, how professional social work practice is implemented, and how the professional  interacts within an agency. Pass/fail only. Practicum course credit requires 140 hours of  observation and practice. Prerequisites: SWK 351, junior status, and approval of the Junior  Practicum coordinator. Offered January Interterm. 
SWK 395 4 hours 
International Practicum 
During the January interterm of the junior or senior year, students would spend time in  an international social work setting gaining knowledge of social work in a different  country. They learn how an agency functions, how social work practice is implemented  abroad, and specific needs within another culture. This practicum opportunity provides  140 hours of field lab work. Class fee assessed to cover travel and in country experience.  Prerequisites: SWK 351 and permission of Director of Social Work. Pass/fail only. 
SWK 441 3 hours 
Human Behavior and the Social Environment 
This course serves as a capstone course for the human behavior in the social  environment sequence in the social work major. The primary purpose of this  course is explore the question, “Why do people behave as they do?” This question  will be explored from a multi-dimensional systems social work perspective. It is  designed to prepare students for multi-dimensional assessments that will be  required for the senior field placement and generalist practice after graduation.  Prerequisites: PSY 250; SWK 362; SWK 354; BIO 106 or 310. Offered Fall semester. 
SWK 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
SWK 451 3 hours 
Social Work Process and Practice III 
The third in the 4-course generalist social work practice sequence. This course  integrates social work practice, intervention and professional skills with regards to  intervention and assessment at the organizational and community level. The course  also focuses on macro social work practice, community organizing and  development. Students will also participate in a grant writing project as they begin  to develop grant writing and fundraising know-how and skills. As in the other  courses in the practice sequence in our social work program, there will be a focus  on the integration of micro, mezzo, and macro skills to empower students for  effective generalist social work practice. Prerequisite: SWK 354. Offered Fall semester. 
SWK 452 3 hours 
Advanced Social Work Practice 
Last in the 4-course sequence for developing generalist practice skills. The professional  helping relationship and interview process are emphasized. Simulated client-worker  situations provide opportunities to practice skills. Employment interviews and strategies  are also discussed. Beginning-level professional writing skills are developed through  documentation exercises. Prerequisite: SWK 354. Offered Fall semester. 
SWK 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
SWK 482 2 hours 
Integrative Social Work Seminar 
A seminar class taken by all social work majors during interterm of the senior year. The focus is  holistic integration of: (1) faith and the social work profession; (2) self and the social work  profession; (3) liberal arts education and the knowledge and practice of social work; (4) self- and  civic-mindedness; and (5) self as global citizen. Students begin to develop the CSWE content  portion of their professional portfolio. Focused presentations are conducted with regard to  stress and time management and burnout prevention. Pass/fail only. 
SWK 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
SWK 492 12 hours 
Senior Practicum 
A professional semester of supervised field practicum in a social work setting; 480  hours required. Prerequisite: Completion of all required courses in the social work major.  Offered Spring semester. 
SOC 100 3 hours 
Introduction to Sociology 
A study of the principles and concepts of sociology in the context of present day social  systems. Attention is given to major contemporary analyses of social events, processes,  and institutions. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science  requirement. Offered Fall semester. 
SOC 110 3 hours 
Introduction to Global Societies 
This course explores the nature of contemporary societies around the world by  considering societal stages and development, cultural and social structural aspects of  societies, international inequality, and globalization. Meets foundational core civic  engagement or general social science requirement. Offered Spring semester. 
SOC 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
SOC 210 3 hours 
Contemporary Social Issues 
An introduction to the study of social problems from several perspectives. Problems  in areas such as drug abuse, crime, education, and the family are examined in the light  of basic principles of sociology. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social  science requirement. Offered Fall semester. 
SOC 220 3 hours 
Ethnic and Minority Issues 
An analysis of inter-group relations in the United States. Topics include a  consideration of the mechanisms of group interaction between dominant and  subordinate groups and the experiences and histories of the primary minority groups  in the United States. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science  requirement. Offered Spring semester. 
SOC 250 2 hours 
Principles of Research and Analysis 
Intended to prepare students to effectively make sense of the bewildering variety of  numbers available in contemporary societies about people, organizations, and social  outcomes, this course is an introduction to the key principles of social measurement  and basic ways numbers are used to represent patterns in the social world. Offered  Fall semester. 
SOC 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
SOC 310 3 hours 
Religion and Society 
An examination of the cultural and structural influences that guide the forms religion takes  in society and the processes through which religious ideas, behaviors, and institutions are  constructed. Attention is given to the sociological theory and research that underlies  religious behavior. Meets foundational core general social science requirement. Offered periodically. 
SOC 313 3 hours 
Statistics for Behavioral Science 
The major concepts covered in the class will be descriptive statistics, basic probability  theory, and inferential statistics. Demonstrations of Microsoft Excel competency will  be assigned for each segment of the class. This course is offered through Taylor University  Online (TUO).  
SOC 315 3 hours 
Social Inequality and Stratification 
This course examines the social systems (cultural and structural) that determine  outcomes in wealth, power and social prestige. The primary focus is on class systems.  Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science requirement. Offered  Spring semester. 
SOC 330 3 hours 
Social Change and Social Movements 
This course focuses on the basic premises of social change including the evolutionary,  conflict and cyclical theories of social change, and the organized activities of collective  behavior and social movements that encourage or discourage social change. Special  attention is given to the theoretical contributions of the structural strain, resource  mobilization and social constructionists’ perspectives. Meets foundational core general  social science requirement. Offered periodically. 
SOC 340 3 hours 
Sociology of Children and Families 
This course examines the sociological foundations of childhood including family  formation, childhood socialization and the changing cultural significance of children.  This course also examines the divergent roles, styles and functions of parenting.  Offered Fall semester of every other year (alternates with SOC 381). 
SOC 350 3 hours 
Social Research Methods 
An exploration of the primary methods of social research and data collection. Topics  include defining a research question and design, and data collection from  operationalization to data entry. Prerequisite: SOC 250. Offered Fall semester. 
SOC 355 3 hours 
Applied Social Statistics 
An introduction to statistical analysis for social research issues. The course focuses on  the uses of statistics, choosing appropriate statistics for a given problem and interpreting  statistical output. Meets foundational core mathematics requirement. Prerequisite: SOC 250.  Offered Spring semester. 
SOC 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
SOC 361 3 hours 
History of Social Thought 
Primary emphasis is placed upon the contributions of sociologists since the time of Comte.  The writings and concepts of leading sociologists in both Europe and America are studied.  Meets foundational core general social science requirement. Offered Fall semester of every other  year (alternates with SOC 365). 
SOC 365 3 hours 
Contemporary Social Thought 
An analysis of social theory as it is practiced today. Building on the classical works of  Marx, Durkheim, Weber, Simmel and Mead, this course focuses on how modern  sociologists have incorporated the classical writers to explain social developments.  Special attention is given to postmodernists, social constructionists, functionalists, neo Marxists, neo-Weberians and leading feminist thinkers. Meets foundational core general  social science requirement. Offered Fall semester of every other year (alternates with SOC 361). 
SOC 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
SOC 381 3 hours 
Marriage and Family Systems 
A study of the changing state of family systems in America. The course also examines  how work, social class, ethnicity and gender affect family structure and function. Meets  foundational core general social science requirement. Offered Fall semester of every other year  (alternates with SOC 340). 
SOC 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one  hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Offered  primarily during Summer. 
SOC 410 3 hours 
Community and Urban Affairs 
Consideration of problems relating to community structure, development and process,  beginning with a historical overview of the development of cities. Special emphasis is  placed upon the interrelationships of various groupings within communities, particularly  within the urban scene. A field trip to a major urban center provides “hands-on” learning.  Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science requirement. Offered Spring semester. 
SOC 420 3 hours 
Organizational Policies and Programs 
A study of the social dynamics that guide and shape organizations in modern societies. The class  prepares students to see and work with the structures of organizations like the church,  government agencies, for-profit companies and nonprofits. The focus is on the application of  organizational theories to organizational settings and includes projects on the development of  organizational programs. Offered periodically. 
SOC 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities as  the library or laboratory. 
SOC 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis on  directed readings and discussion.  
SOC 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open to  students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
SOC 493 2 hours 
Sociology Integrative Seminar 
This course provides students with the opportunity to approach the field of sociology  holistically and integrate faith and sociological insight. Offered Spring semester. 
SOC 498 1 hour 
Sociology Senior Thesis 
Students will complete a senior thesis that demonstrates an ability to apply sociological  perspective through a theoretical or methodological analysis of a sociological topic they  have chosen. Offered Spring semester.