EDU 150 3 hours 
Education in America 
A study of the historical, philosophical, and sociological foundations of education.  The organization and role of the public school, P-12, in a multicultural society are  examined. An analysis of teaching is made, including implications of some court  cases related to teaching, concepts of teaching, and leadership roles. The course  includes a study of multicultural and ethnic differences among students and the  resulting effect on the teacher’s role. Includes a field experience lab. 
EDU 151 1 hour 
Introduction to the Teacher Education Program 
This course is designed to assist students who wish to transfer the equivalent of  EDU 150 Education in America, but have unmet requirements. In this course,  students will complete outstanding requirements for EDU 150 and become familiar  with requirements for the teacher education program at Taylor University. A field  experience may be required. 
EDU 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
EDU 200 3 hours 
Introduction to Early Childhood Programs 
This course deals with the history of early childhood education and also takes an in-depth  look at the qualities needed to become an effective early childhood teacher. Students  study the professional aspects of developing appropriate curriculum and physical settings  for the preschool and kindergarten classroom. Methods that meet the physical,  emotional, social, mental, and spiritual developmental growth of young children are  explored. Includes weekly observation of and participation with children in preschool,  kindergarten, and Headstart programs. Prerequisite: EDU 150. 
EDU 222 2 hours 
Reading in the Content Area for Secondary Teachers 
Designed to provide practical procedures for developing effective reading skills at  the junior high, middle, and secondary school levels. Attention centers on  understanding the relationships between the processes of reading and the learning  of content. Suggestions on how to meet the total range of student reading needs  in the classroom are addressed. Methods and materials to enhance advanced  comprehension and study skills of adolescents in a multicultural society are  presented. Includes a field experience lab. Required for all secondary/all-grade majors  seeking licensure. Prerequisite: EDU 150. 
EDU 242 3 hours 
Educational Technology in Elementary Education 
Students develop skills in using presentational software, video conferencing, smart  boards, portable devices, and video editing and discover their application to classroom  instruction. Students will understand the International Society for Technology in  Education (ISTE) standards. Ethical and fair use issues regarding educational technology  and media will also be addressed. Meets the foundational core computation requirement. 
EDU 243 1 hour 
Technology Applications in Elementary Education 
The course examines the pedagogical value of technology in the elementary school.  Students will learn how to apply technology to classroom instruction. Ethical and  fair use issues regarding educational technology and media will also be addressed.  Prerequisite: COS 104 or equivalent. Offered Spring semester only. 
EDU 255 3 hours 
Foundations of Literacy and Language Arts in the Elementary Classroom
Course explores fundamental concepts concerning the development of children’s  language and literacy and the teacher’s role in this process including the selection  of appropriate instructional materials and strategies to meet the literacy needs of  children. This course also investigates the techniques and methods necessary for  integrating language arts in the elementary classroom. Topics include core literacy  issues, emergent literacy, word identification and recognition, phonological  awareness, and methods for language arts instruction. Required for all elementary  majors seeking licensure. Prerequisite: EDU 150. 
EDU 260 3 hours 
Educational Psychology 
The course focuses on the study and application of learning theories and  psychological concepts and principles to the teaching-learning process.  Developmental stages, age-level characteristics of students, gender differences,  learning styles, contemporary views of intelligence, effects of ethnicity and social  class on teaching and learning, principles of multicultural education, the teacher’s  role in accommodating special needs in the regular classroom, learning theories,  various instructional approaches, theories of motivation, and various types of  assessment, including standardized and high-stakes tests, are examined. Prerequisite:  EDU 150. 
EDU 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
EDU 306 2 hours 
Discipline and Classroom Management for Elementary Teachers
This course is designed to assist students preparing for the elementary classroom in  developing practical skills and techniques for organizing the classroom and maintaining  effective discipline. Students develop a plan for discipline and classroom management  which utilizes a proactive approach based on positive ethical practices consistent with Christian and democratic principles. Several widely accepted discipline theories along  with the study of legal implications for teachers are used in conjunction with observations  and case studies to assist students in developing effective discipline plans. Prerequisite: EDU  150. Elementary Education majors only. 
EDU 307 2 hours 
Discipline and Classroom Management for Secondary Teachers
This course is designed to assist students preparing for the secondary or all grade  classroom in developing practical skills and techniques for organizing the classroom and  maintaining effective discipline. Students develop a plan for discipline and classroom  management which utilizes a proactive approach based on positive ethical practices  consistent with Christian and democratic principles. Several widely accepted discipline  theories along with the study of legal implications for teachers are used in conjunction  with observations and case studies to assist students in developing effective discipline  plans. Prerequisite: EDU 150. Secondary/all grade education majors only. 
EDU 309 1 hour 
Methods of Instruction and Assessment in Secondary Education
A junior level course that focuses upon pedagogical methods including assessment,  instructional strategies, and culturally responsive teaching practices. The majority  of the course includes a placement in a secondary school for a laboratory field  experience. Prerequisites: EDU 150, EDU 222, EDU 260, and approval into the teacher  education program. Offered Fall semester. 
EDU 315 1 hour 
An Exploration of Young Adult Literature  
The course will explore the genre of young adult literature. Students will critically  evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of young adult literature. Students will  recognize current themes and topics of young adult literature. 
EDU 321 2 hours 
Teaching Science in the Elementary Classroom 
This course is designed to introduce students to hands-on, inquiry based methods of  teaching science in the elementary classroom. Content from physical sciences, life  sciences, and earth/space sciences will be included. Course will include objectives  and lesson plans linked to national and state standards; integration of reading, writing,  and other content areas to science; and using a variety of assessment strategies. JuMP  field experience. Prerequisites: EDU 150 and approval into the teacher education program. 
EDU 332 2 hours 
The Junior High/Middle School 
A study of the philosophy, development, and organization of middle schools and  junior high schools. Examines through readings, seminars, field experiences, and  classroom investigations the purpose, curriculum, and instructional strategies,  including the use of appropriate media and technology, for effective teaching in junior  high/middle schools. This course provides prospective teachers with knowledge and  understanding of the adolescent, the school, and practical teaching activities. Includes  a field experience lab. Must be completed prior to student teaching. Prerequisites: EDU  150 and EDU 260. 
EDU 344 1 hour 
Educational Technology in Secondary Education 
This course addresses fundamental principles related to the appropriate, responsible,  and ethical use of the Internet and relevant technology as integrated in the secondary  education classroom. Through understanding and applying the International Society  for Technology in Education (ISTE) standards, students will develop a philosophy for  effectively integrating technology into the secondary classroom and will practice  these principles through the creation of content specific instructional models and  learning activities. Students will investigate the potential for technology to expand  research opportunities, increase skill development, and encourage the curating of  content knowledge. Required for secondary education majors seeking teacher licensure.  Corequisite: EDU 332. 
EDU 351 3 hours 
Methods and Materials for Elementary Teachers 
An integrative approach of utilizing a variety of effective instructional methods and  resources with content areas, including science and social studies, appropriate for  elementary children. Strategies for working with diverse student populations and  incorporating current educational technology competencies are included. JuMP field  experience. Prerequisites: EDU 150, EDU 260, and approval into the teacher education  program. Offered Fall semester. 
EDU 355 3 hours 
Early Literacy Experiences and Assessments: K-3 
Course focuses upon the teaching and assessment of literacy in the early classroom.  Topics include emergent literacy, word identification and recognition, fluency, and  assessments. JuMP field experience. Prerequisites: EDU 150, EDU 260, and approval into  the teacher education program. Corequisite: EDU 355L and EDU 371. Offered Fall semester. 
EDU 355L 1 hour 
Elementary Education Junior Block Field Experience Lab  
This lab experience is to be taken concurrently with elementary education junior  block methods classes. Corequisite with EDU 355. Offered Fall semester. 
EDU 356 3 hours 
Middle Childhood Literacy Experiences and Assessments
4-6 Course focuses upon the teaching and assessment of literacy in the middle childhood classroom. Topics include vocabulary, comprehension, study skills, content area literacy,  and assessments. JuMP field experience. Prerequisites: EDU 150, EDU 260, EDU 355, and  approval into the teacher education program. Corequisite: EDU 351 and EDU 356L. Offered  Spring semester. 
EDU 356L 1 hour 
Elementary Education Junior Block Field Experience Lab 
This lab experience is to be taken concurrently with elementary education junior  block methods classes. Corequisite with EDU 356. Offered Spring semester. 
EDU 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
EDU 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.
EDU 371 3 hours 
Literature for Children and Adolescents 
The various genres of children’s literature and young adult literature are explored.  Course focuses upon new literacy, multicultural literature, special needs, and other  appropriate literature. Materials range from emergent books to young adult  literature. JuMP field experience. Prerequisites: EDU 150, EDU 260, and approval into  the teacher education program. Corequisite: EDU 355. Offered Fall semester. 
EDU 384 1 hour 
Perspectives on Diversity 
This seminar focuses on education in diverse settings. Emphasis is given to the impact  of learning of social class, race/ethnicity, and English language proficiency through  readings and discussions. The roles of local, state, and federal agencies in relationship  to public educational policy are discussed and analyzed. Field-trip exploration of various  schools and organizations serving diverse populations is a key component of the course.  A class fee is necessary to cover field trip expenses. Prerequisite: EDU 150. Meets foundational  core civic engagement requirement. Offered Fall and Spring semesters.  
EDU 385 3 hours 
Diversity in the Classroom 
This courses provides a pre-student teaching experience working in either an  urban public school or overseas in a school with English as the medium of  instruction. Placements are in diverse settings. Emphasis is given to application of  and written reflection on issues explored in EDU 384. Observation, participation,  and a limited amount of supervised classroom teaching are expected. Prerequisites:  EDU 260 and EDU 384. Meets foundational core cross-cultural (CC) requirement.  Offered January interterm. 
EDU 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one  hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Offered  primarily during Summer. 
EDU 421 17 hours 
Supervised Internship in Elementary Schools 
Full-time teaching experiences for the intern at two grade levels under the supervision  of public and private school and college personnel. Multicultural/multiethnic education  placement is required in one of the experiences. Prerequisites: (a) approval by the Teacher  Education Committee; (b) EDU 150, 255, 260, 306, 351, 355, and 356. Credit only. 
EDU 431 17 hours 
Supervised Internship in Secondary Schools 
Full-time teaching experiences for the intern at two grade levels under the supervision of public  school and college personnel. Prerequisites: (a) approval of the Teacher Education Committee; (b)  EDU 150, 222, 260, 307, 309. See individual majors for additional prerequisite courses. Credit only. 
EDU 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities as  the library or laboratory. 
EDU 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
EDU 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open to  students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
EDU 493 3 hours 
Elementary Education Senior Capstone 
Students address current and future issues related to teaching through lectures,  readings, school visits, and discussion. The integration of Christian philosophical  concerns with the current role and responsibilities of teachers is emphasized. Required  Washington D.C. field trip. Fee required. Prerequisite: Approval into the teacher education  program. Offered January interterm only. 
SED 220 3 hours 
Exceptional Children 
This course is designed to prepare the teacher for the challenge of meeting the needs of  exceptional children in the regular classroom. A general study of exceptional children  focuses on mainstreamed and included special education students. Various topics  included are identification of exceptional children, their characteristics and special needs,  delivery of services, instructional methods and techniques, and evaluation.  
SED 330 3 hours 
Foundations of Special Education 
A study of the profession of special education, this course deals with the philosophical,  historical, ethical, and legal foundations of special education. The responsibilities and rights  of students, their parents, all involved educators and other professionals are studied as  they relate to meeting the needs of exceptional learners. Prerequisite: SED 220. Offered Spring. 
SED 340 3 hours 
Assessment of Exceptional Learners 
This course focuses on formal and informal assessments used to identify, plan for, and  teach students with exceptional needs, including the use of that information to develop  individual education plans. Communication of that information with students, parents,  and other professionals is discussed. Includes a field experience lab. Prerequisites: SED  220 and SED 330. Offered Fall semester. 
SED 350 3 hours 
Behavior Management and Disorders 
Managing the learning environment of students with special needs is the focus of this  course. Topics covered include behavioral assessments and their use in developing  behavior intervention plans for exceptional students, as well as the legal implications of  laws and regulations regarding the implementation of these plans in various learning  environments. JuMP field experience. Prerequisites: SED 220 and SED 330. Offered Spring  semester. 
SED 355 3 hours 
Methods of Special Education 
Methods and materials used in the intervention of exceptional learners are  presented in this course. Strategies of instruction in the least restrictive  environment, modification of curriculum, and collaboration and consultation across  the spectrum of services are presented in conjunction with the daily teaching and  planning required of students’ individual education plans. Includes a field experience  lab. JuMP field experience. Prerequisites: SED 220 and SED 330. Offered Fall semester. 
SED 375 3 hours 
Low-Incidence Disabilities-Instruction and Learning 
A study of the curriculum principles related to the design of systematic instruction for  individuals with intense disabilities. The focus is on research-based strategies for promoting  academic and social-emotional success for students from preschool through adolescence. The  roles and types of technologies in the teaching and learning process are included. To apply  knowledge of systematic instruction with assessment, candidates will gain understanding of the  history, legal, characteristics, and etiological background of children and adolescence with  intense disabilities. Includes a field experience teaching students with intense disabilities.  Prerequisites: SED 350 and SED 355. 
SED 380 3 hours 
Low-Incidence Disabilities-Independence and Self-determination
This course provides candidates with the skills to understand and interpret the instructional  needs of students with intense disabilities related to independence and self-determination. The  student, family, and diagnostic procedures to inform decision-making is the focus. Theories  and principles related to the development of skills for independence and self-determination are  used to integrate daily living, job and community, and behavior self-management into  individualized programs for students. This course includes a field experience teaching students  with intense disabilities. Prerequisites: SED 350 and SED 355. 
SED 390 3 hours 
Low-Incidence Disabilities-Collaboration and Individualized Programs
The course focuses on the strategies of effective communication and collaboration for  promoting the success of children and adolescents with intense disabilities. The consultative  and collaborative skills and roles of special education teachers will be studied to advance the  learning experiences and outcomes for students. Content includes the functions and roles of  various professionals, settings, programs, and services. Culturally competent services, parent  involvement, and the role of students with intense disabilities are addressed. This course  includes a field experience teaching students with intense disabilities. Prerequisites: SED 350 and  SED 355. 
SED 440 3 hours 
Special Education Integrative Seminar 
This special education capstone course provides students with the opportunity to approach  the field of special education holistically, examining contemporary and critical issues in special  education as these issues are examined through a theological lens. Prerequisites: SED 220,  SED 330, SED 340, SED 350, and SED 355. Offered Spring semester. 
TSL 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
TSL 201 3 hours 
Introduction to SLA and the Field of Teaching ESOL 
This course discusses the role of the English language in the contemporary world and  how language and culture shape human interactions. It provides an introductory  understanding of the field of second language acquisition, from the perspective of  both learning and teaching a new language. It also explores the teaching of English in  ministry in U.S. and international contexts. Includes 5 hours of TESOL/cross cultural  experience.  
TSL 202 1 hour 
Introduction to the ESOL classroom 
Geared towards non-education majors, this course introduces elements of effective  English language instruction in an ESOL (English for Speakers of Other Languages)  classroom. Includes 3 hours of practical TESOL experience. Must be take concurrently  with TSL 201. Offered Fall and Spring semesters. 
TSL 203 1 hour 
Introduction to ESOL in American Public Schools 
Geared towards future teachers in American public schools, this course introduces  elements of effective English language instruction in the P-12 classroom. It presents  effective ways of scaffolding and making accommodations for English language learners  in content- and standards-based instruction. Includes 3 hours of practical TESOL  experience. Must be take concurrently with TSL 201. Offered Fall and Spring semesters. 
TSL 210 3 hours 
Teaching ELL in P-12 Classroom 
Intended for future US public school ESOL professionals, this course addresses  English language learners (ELLs) in P-12 classrooms. Investigates TESOL-related  legislation and its effect on schools, students, and teachers, as well as types of ESOL  programs used in U.S. schools and their effectiveness. Studies effective advocacy,  strategies for collaboration with families and non-ESOL colleagues and  paraprofessionals, and helpful resources and services. Prerequisites: EDU 150 and TSL  201. Offered Spring semester. 
TSL 211 3 hours 
Teaching English Internationally 
This course provides an analysis of background issues in teaching English to speakers  of other languages outside the U.S. Primary focus will be on covering non pedagogical aspects of preparing for an English teaching position overseas. This will  include better understanding the cultural and classroom challenges of teaching English  internationally as well as helping students more effectively assess prospective  teaching opportunities. Offered Fall semester of even years. 
TSL 212 1 hour 
Adult ESL Literacy Development  
Examines aspects of teaching literacy skills to adult ESL students such as refugees or  immigrants with limited or interrupted education. Prerequisites: TSL 201; and TSL 202  or TSL 203. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
TSL 240 3 hours 
Introduction to Linguistics 
Linguistics is the scientific study of spoken or signed human Language. This course  introduces the core areas of linguistics (i.e., phonology, morphology, syntax,  semantics, pragmatics) that are common to all human languages. The goal is to  understand the basic structure of Language, and develop the analytical skills to  observe and describe any human language. It will also explore how languages are  learned, and how language is tied to a sense of identity. 
TSL 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
TSL 302 3 hours 
Language and Culture  
Introductory course providing brief overview of phonology, morphology, syntax,  semantics and pragmatics. Examines areas of phonetics and language variations (such  as language and power, socioeconomic status, regionalisms, ethnicity, bilingualism,  multilingualism, globalization) in more depth. Prerequisites: TSL 201; and TSL 202 or  TSL 203. 
TSL 303 3 hours 
Methods and Assessment in TESOL 
This course develops understanding and skill in classroom instruction of English learners including lesson planning, teaching, and assessment. Topics covered include  teaching methods and techniques for all aspects of English language development,  educational technology, curricular planning, and formative assessment. Includes a 20-hour field experience lab. Prerequisite: TSL 201. 
TSL 304 3 hours 
Issues in Second Language Acquisition 
This course offers a review of second language acquisition theory and research and  introduces current issues in second language acquisition. Prerequisites: TSL 201, TSL 305,  and TSL 303. 
TSL 305 3 hours 
Pedagogical Grammar and Applied Linguistics in TESOL 
This course introduces applied linguistics and its practical implications in language  teaching. It provides study of English grammar and how English structures are taught  and explained to English learners. Prerequisite: TSL 201.  
TSL 310 3 hours 
Teaching the Skill Areas in TESOL 
This course develops understanding and skill in classroom instruction of English  learners in the skill areas of reading, writing, speaking, and listening. Students will  apply their growing knowledge of how English learners develop these language skills  to their own current or intended teaching context and age group. Prerequisites: TSL  201, TSL 303, and TSL 305. 
TSL 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic. 
TSL 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
TSL 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
TSL 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
TSL 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
TSL 482 3 hours 
Practicum and Seminar in TESOL 
This course consists of a supervised ESOL teaching experience totaling 80 hours, plus  accompanying seminar sessions focused on reflection, specialization in a TESOL topic  of choice, and development of teaching skill. Prerequisites: TSL 201, TSL 210, TSL 303,  and TSL 305. Application and departmental approval required. 
TSL 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open  to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 