GEO 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
GEO 210 4 hours 
Physical Geography 
The study of the basic physical characteristics of the earth and the effect of the  natural environment upon the activities of humankind. Meets the foundational  core earth science requirement. 
GEO 220 3 hours 
Regional Geography 
A course offering basic ideas and supporting facts about contemporary world  geography. Students study eight world regions: Europe, former Soviet Union,  Latin America, Anglo-America, Middle East, Orient, Pacific World and Africa.  Meets the foundational core general social science requirement. 
GEO 230 3 hours 
Political Geography 
The geographic interpretation of world relations. The relationships of  geographic elements to the development of nations both past and present are  examined. Meets the foundational core civic engagement or general social science  requirement. 
GEO 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
GEO 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
GEO 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
GEO 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one  hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Offered  primarily during Summer. 
GEO 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
GEO 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
GEO 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open  to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
GBS 130 3 hours 
Introduction to Global Studies 
Required for international studies majors, this course introduces students to cross cultural issues, international current events, and international career opportunities.  Meets the foundational core general social science requirement. Offered Spring semester. 
GBS 135 1 hour 
Introduction to Intercultural Learning 
This course focuses on preparation for an intercultural experience. It includes an  overview of intercultural frameworks and encourage a learner’s mindset that is  curious about cultures, identity, value-formation, and similar and different ways of  making meaning in the world. In an increasingly diverse and connected world, this  course provides tools for reflection and learning that will help students bridge  across cultural differences. 
GBS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
GBS 210 3 hours 
Learning in Global and Intercultural Contexts 
Students are introduced to intercultural concepts, while assuming a learner’s  posture towards an increased understanding of self and others, as well as various  ways of making meaning in the world. In an increasingly diverse and connected  world, this course provides tools for reflection and learning that help students  bridge across differences. They consider identity and cultural formation, differences  and similarities through the lens of a variety of cultural contexts, and frameworks  for cultural dimensions. 
GBS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
GBS 325 3 hours 
Peace and Conflict: Peacebuilding and Reconciliation 
This course studies peace and conflict through an interdisciplinary lens, examining  the impact of conflict across multiple sectors of society—religious, social, economic,  and political. The impact of conflict on civic society and individuals will be examined  through educational activities that explore identity, peacebuilding, conflict  resolution, and mediation. Meets foundational core general social science requirement.  
GBS 360 1-4 hours  
Independent Study  
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
GBS 370 1-4 hours  
Selected Topics  
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
GBS 393 1-4 hours  
Practicum  
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one hour  of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Offered primarily  during Summer.  
GBS 450 1-4 hours  
Directed Research  
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities as  the library or laboratory.  
GBS 480 1-4 hours  
Global Studies Senior Seminar  
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion. Students develop, revise, and complete a major  research project resulting in a 20-25 page paper. This course serves as the senior capstone  experience for the Global Studies major and fulfills the senior comprehensive requirement.  Prerequisite: GBS 130.  
GBS 490 1-2 hours  
Honors  
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open  to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field.  
HIS 103 3 hours 
World History I 
A survey of the foundations of civilizations and complex societies across the globe  from 3200 BC to AD 1500. 
HIS 104 3 hours 
World History II 
A survey of the early modern and modern world (AD 1500 to present), with  attention given to international economic, political, and cultural contact, and its  consequences for peoples and cultures. 
HIS 124 3 hours 
History of the United States to 1877 
A survey of the social, political, and cultural development of the people of the United  States from the colonization period through Reconstruction. 
HIS 125 3 hours 
History of the United States since 1877 
A survey of the social, political, and cultural development of the people of the  United States from Reconstruction to the present. 
HIS 130 3 hours 
Introduction to History 
An introduction to the discipline of history. Emphasis is placed on acquainting students  with the major components of historical inquiry, current issues in the field, computer  applications and fundamental questions relative to the philosophy of history. Required for  history majors. Will not meet foundational core history requirement. 
HIS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  Departmental approval is needed to meet the foundational core history requirement. 
HIS 211 3 hours 
History and Geography of Latin America 
Historical and geographical study of the nations between the Rio Grande River and  Cape Horn. Attention is given to the development of each Latin American area and its  relationship to the United States. Meets foundational core general social science requirement.  
HIS 212 3 hours 
History and Geography of East Asia 
An examination of the histories of China, Japan, and Korea from their earliest  foundations to the contemporary era, with particular emphasis on the political,  religious, philosophical and cultural underpinnings of these societies. The  geographic aspects of the region are also included. Meets foundational core general  social science requirement. 
HIS 213 3 hours 
History and Geography of Africa 
A study of the historic, physical, and cultural aspects of Africa, with primary emphasis on  sub-Sahara Africa and including the significant role Africa plays in the modern world.  Meets foundational core general social science requirement. Offered Fall semester. 
HIS 215 3 hours 
History and Geography of South/Southeast Asia 
An exploration of the political, cultural, and religious development of the Indian  subcontinent from 2500 B.C. to the modern era, as well as a survey of Southeast  Asia with a focus on Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam.  The course includes study of the impact of geography on the region’s people and  history. Meets foundational core general social science requirement.  
HIS 223 3 hours 
The Greco-Roman World 
An examination of the ancient Mediterranean civilizations of Greece and Rome  from the Bronze Age cultures of the Minoans and Mycenaeans to the "Fall" of Rome  and its aftermath. Attention is given to the importance of geographical and spatial  concepts in the formation of global trends. Students taking this course for the  Women's History minor will write a paper on an aspect of the life of women during this  time period. 
HIS 224 3 hours 
The Middle Ages 
A study of the history of the Medieval world from the 4th century AD to the 15th  century AD. This course will focus primarily on Western Europe, but will also  include both Byzantium and the Islamic world and the interaction of these three  spheres. Special attention is given to the dramatic changes in religion, culture,  gender, and ideology that occurred during this period. Students taking this course for  the Women's History minor will write a paper on an aspect of the life of women during  this time period. 
HIS 225 3 hours 
Women in Ancient Egypt 
An examination of the lives of women in Pharaonic Egypt from approximately 3200  BC to 332 BC. To do this, we will utilize evidence from ancient literature and art,  historical inscriptions, and archaeological finds. 
HIS 226 3 hours 
Women in World History 
This course is a comparative study of the history of women in the world from the  early modern period to the present day, with a particular focus on women of the  non-Western world. It examines the similarities and differences in their cultural,  social, religious, political, and economic status. 
HIS 227 3 hours 
War in American History 
This course examines issues of war and peace in American history from the early  seventeenth century to the early twenty-first century. While most military conflicts  will receive coverage, more in-depth attention will be paid to major ones like the  American Revolution, Civil War, World Wars I and II, and Vietnam. The course  will analyze American wars from various angles, including but not limited to: military  history, social history, race and gender, intellectual life, and religion. Through an  examination of primary and secondary sources, students will leave with an enriched  understanding of war in American history. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
HIS 228 3 hours 
The Roosevelts 
This course examines the Roosevelt family and its importance to American history.  Students will be acquainted with some of the specialized scholarship on the  Roosevelts as well as with broader work on American history in the nineteenth  and twentieth centuries. Students will also consider the benefits and drawbacks of  historical documentary filmmaking as exemplified in the Ken Burns film, The  Roosevelts (2014). Students counting this course toward the women's history minor must  write their research paper on some aspect of the Roosevelt women. 
HIS 230 3 hours 
American Religious History 
A study of the historical development in the United States of such movements as  Puritanism, revivalism, the social gospel, Judaism, Catholicism and variant forms of  Protestantism. Offered Fall semester. 
HIS 233 3 hours 
Reformation Christianity 
A study of the history of Christianity from 1500 to 1650, dealing with the  achievements of Luther, Zwingli and Calvin; the expansion of Protestantism in  Germany, Switzerland, and England; the Anabaptist movement; the Catholic  Reformation; and the religious wars up to the Treaty of Westphalia. This course is  offered through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
HIS 235 3 hours 
Women in American History 
A survey of women in America from the colonial era to the present. Emphasis is  placed on the historical experience of women in terms of perceptions, restrictions  and resistance, and activities. 
HIS 240 3 hours 
European Religious History 
A survey of the development of Christianity and Judaism in Europe from the Roman  Empire to the contemporary era, with special emphasis on the early church, the  conversion of the barbarians, the medieval church, the Reformation, Pietism, 19th century reform movements and the impact of World Wars I and II. 
HIS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  Departmental approval is needed to meet the foundational core history requirement. 
HIS 310 3 hours 
The Modern Civil Rights Movement 
This course examines the modern Civil Rights Movement in the United States. The  focus is on the years 1954-1970, but significant attention is also placed on the  background to and aftermath of this period. This course is offered in both on-campus  and travel-study formats.  
HIS 311 3 hours 
History and Geography of Latin America 
See HIS 211. 
HIS 312 3 hours 
History and Geography of East Asia 
See HIS 212. 
HIS 313 3 hours 
History and Geography of Africa 
See HIS 213. 
HIS 315 3 hours 
History and Geography of South/Southeast Asia 
See HIS 215. 
HIS 317 3 hours 
The Gilded Age and Progressive Era (1877-1920) 
This course probes deeply into the Gilded Age and Progressive Era (1877-1920).  Students will deepen their understanding of the principal issues and controversies  in this period through readings in primary and secondary sources. Oral  presentations and written assignments will comprise the bulk of student work. The  course will be organized around several prominent figures from this period.  Students may count this course toward a minor in women’s history with a research paper  on some aspect of women’s history in this period. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
HIS 320 3 hours 
Ancient Near Eastern History 
An examination of the cultures of the ancient Near East from prehistoric times  through the 4th century B.C. Attention is given to the importance of geographical  and spatial concepts in the formation of global trends. Prerequisite: HIS 130. 
HIS 321 3 hours 
Modern Middle East 
See POS 321. 
HIS 331 4 hours 
Reformation and Enlightenment 
Historical study of Europe from Luther to the Bastille, including the Ages of the  Reformation, Absolutism and the Enlightenment.  
HIS 335 4 hours 
Modern European Empires 
An examination of Europe’s cooperation and competition to build global empires  in the nineteenth century. An emphasis on ideologies, policies, and broad  understanding of the scope of European imperialism. Attention is given to the  importance of geographical and spatial concepts in the formation of global trends.  Prerequisite: HIS 130. 
HIS 340 4 hours 
Colonial America 
This course examines the complex society that developed in eastern North  America during the 17th and 18th centuries. It explores the far-reaching  repercussions of contact between Europeans, Native Americans, and Africans; the  cultural, intellectual, military, and political dimensions of European imperial  endeavors; the unique social formations that resulted from migration and the  challenges of sharing space; and the role of Christianity in the founding of the United  States. 
HIS 342 4 hours 
History of England 
A study of English political, constitutional, cultural and intellectual developments,  the growth of the British Empire and international relations. 
HIS 352 3 hours 
African-American History 
A survey of African-American history from African origins through the modern civil rights  movement. Emphasis is placed on the oppression and resistance to oppression that  characterize the African-American experience. Offered Spring semester. 
HIS 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic. Does not meet the  foundational core history requirement. 
HIS 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  Departmental approval is needed to meet the foundational core history requirement. 
HIS 371 3 hours 
Civil War Era (1820-1880) 
A study of the most dominant public issue in mid-nineteenth century America, namely  the sectional conflict stemming from the issue of slavery. The course gives major  emphasis to: (1) the institutions, ideas and events that led to the Civil War; (2) the war  itself; and (3) the reconstruction of the Union. 
HIS 376 3 hours  
History of Constitutional Issues: Institutional Powers 
Considers the development of judicial review in relation to the powers of the President  and Congress. Focuses on judicial interpretations of the commerce and taxing clauses  as well as state powers under the due process clause of the 14th Amendment. This  course is offered through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
HIS 385 3 hours 
Constitutional Law I: Foundation 
See POS 385. 
HIS 386 3 hours 
Constitutional Law II: Civil Liberties and Rights 
See POS 386. 
HIS 391 3 hours 
The World Since 1945 
An examination of key world events in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, the United  States, and Canada since World War II. The emphasis is on the political and economic  development, though cultural and social aspects are also included. 
HIS 392 3 hours 
Twentieth Century U.S. History 
A study of the political, military, economic, and cultural development of the nation during  its rise to world prominence. Prerequisites: HIS 124 and HIS 125.  
HIS 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one  hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Does not  meet the foundational core history requirement. Offered primarily during Summer. 
HIS 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities as  the library or laboratory. Does not meet the foundational core history requirement. 
HIS 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion. Does not meet the foundational core history  requirement. This course, including the 30-page major research project, fulfills the senior  comprehensive requirement. 
HIS 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open to  students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. Does not meet the foundational core history requirement. 
LGS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
LGS 250 3 hours 
Law and Society 
Examines the role of laws and the legal system in a societal context. Topics include the  structure and function of the federal and state judicial systems, relationship of courts to  legislatures and administrative agencies, and critical analyses of law as a tool for preserving  social order and effecting change. The course will include a comparative study of legal  systems and a discussion of the rule of law and development of democratic institutions of  government. Students will also address the cultural view of law, lawyers, and the legal  system including a consideration of law as a vocation for Christ followers. 
LGS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
LGS 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
LGS 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
LGS 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
LGS 441 3 hours 
Principles of Legal Analysis  
Taught by an attorney, this course is designed for those who expect to attend law  school. Students gain experience with the writing, reading and critical thought levels  expected of all law students. 
LGS 442 3 hours 
Legal Thought 
An overview of ancient, modern, and contemporary theories of the law. The course  explores the nature of law and its relationship to politics, morality and ethics.  Prerequisite: MGT 311 or permission of instructor. 
LGS 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities as  the library or laboratory. 
LGS 480 3 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
LGS 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open to  students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
OVC 110 3 hours 
Introduction to Working with Orphans and Vulnerable Children
This course serves as the introduction to the field of working with OVC in a variety  of settings, exposing students to global needs and best practices in terms of  addressing those needs. It takes an ecological approach to understand the child in  a vulnerable context. Topics include orphan care, adoption, foster care, trafficking,  and refugees. This course also includes theological and ethical approaches to care. 
OVC 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
OVC 220 3 hours 
Violence Against Children 
This course introduces students to the global epidemic of violence against children.  It will explore causes and consequence of violence at the individual and systemic  level. Topics will cover human rights of children, violence in the home, violence in  the work-place, and violence in the community. Meets the foundational core general  social science requirement. 
OVC 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
OVC 310 3 hours  
Philanthropy and Grant-Writing 
This course examines the role that grant-making foundations and individuals have  played in supporting activities designed to affect social change and public policies,  and the significance of that work on local and international communities. Patterns of  giving, understanding philanthropy, structural and organizational issues, outlining and  writing proposals, as well as programmatic opportunities and constraints are examined. 
OVC 329 3 hours 
Monitoring and Evaluation 1: Data Collection 
This course provides students with an introduction to methods in monitoring and  evaluation. It will focus on designing research that would establish both efficacy and  effectiveness. Students will be trained in how to collect data designed to measure  program and intervention objectives. Attention is given to working with  stakeholders and beneficiaries, with particular focus on respecting the rights and  welfare of all those involved. Both qualitative and quantitative methods will be taught. 
OVC 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
OVC 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
OVC 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one  hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Offered  primarily during Summer. 
OVC 429 3 hours 
Monitoring and Evaluation 2: Data Analysis 
This course equips students with specific statistical procedures related to monitoring  and evaluation. Students will be trained in presenting results in both oral and written  format, with a focus on client consultation. In addition, qualitative analysis will be taught. 
OVC 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities as  the library or laboratory. 
OVC 480 3 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion.  
OVC 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open to  students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
OVC 493 3 hours 
Senior Capstone 
This course serves as a culminating learning experience that requires students to  develop a senior portfolio that synthesizes the curriculum. Students will be encouraged  to work on projects that would lead to focus on selected topics. 
POS 100 3 hours 
American Politics 
Primary emphasis is given to the relationship between the theories and ideals of democracy  and the actual practice of making and implementing policy. The course considers the  constitutional system, as well as the institutions of American government. Meets foundational  core civic engagement or general social science requirements. Offered Fall semester. 
POS 150 3 hours 
World Politics 
Surveys the development of the international political system and the relations  among nation-states, international organizations and other entities. Gives special  attention to war, conflict resolution, and international law. Meets foundational core civic engagement or general social science requirements. 
POS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
POS 213 3 hours 
International Political Economy 
Examines trade, development and environmental protection as issues involving both states  and non-state actors in world politics. Uses case studies to consider the relationship between  Christian ethics and the wealth and poverty of nations. Meets foundational core civic  engagement or general social science requirements. Offered Spring semester. 
POS 215 3 hours 
Human Trafficking 
An examination of human trafficking in the United States and the world utilizing the  expertise of professionals who serve trafficked victims and their specific roles.  Students will gain a clear understanding of the forms of human trafficking as well  the work of professionals and survivors who serve these disadvantaged persons. 
POS 222 3 hours 
Comparative Politics 
Studies political institutions and processes in selected countries. Focuses on political  culture, democracy, and factors affecting how well governments function. Meets  general social science requirement. Offered Fall semester of even years. 
POS 224 3 hours 
Pursuit of Happiness 
A survey of the philosophical understanding and writing of the American founding fathers;  the text and structure of the U.S. Constitution; definitions and comparison of capitalism,  socialism and communism; and examination of a possible future for American government. 
POS 232 3 hours 
Political Thinking 
Introduces students to central concepts and theories of politics and engages students in  critical analysis of those concepts and theories. Special consideration is given to key works  on the integration of Christianity and politics. Offered Spring semester. 
POS 233 3 hours 
State and Local Politics 
This course is designed to introduce the student to the theory, function, institutions,  processes, policies, and operations of state and local government and politics. The  increase in the importance and status of state and local politics and policy in meeting the  needs of its citizens necessitates such a course, particularly with the increasing complexity  of constitutional challenges, policy advocacy and innovation, and intergovernmental  relations. During times of economic and political crises, and the increasing expansion of  national governmental legal and regulatory authority, state and local government politics  is under increasing pressure to adapt during times of economic and constitutional crisis.  It is imperative that students have a solid understanding of how state and local  governments and politics work with the non-profit and private sectors. 
POS 245 3 hours 
Research in Political Studies 
An introduction to the conduct of research in the study of politics. Students engage in  activities that help them develop basic research literacy and understanding as they apply  basic research methodology utilized by political scientists and practitioners. 
POS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
POS 304 3 hours 
Global Governance 
The course begins by surveying different approaches to the study of security. It then takes  a thematic approach. It considers whether liberal democracies are different from other  types of state in relation to war and attitudes to the laws or war. It also examines the  issues of nuclear weapon, terrorism, controls on conventional arms transfers, ethnic  conflict, the news media and public opinion, humanitarian intervention, the occupation of  Iraq, Christians’ war and pacifism, and the relationships between security and  development. Designed to serve as a foundation for participation in the American  National Model United Nations (AMUN) simulation. Offered Fall semester. 
POS 310 3 hours 
Constitutional Development 
A survey of the major political battles that have defined the United States  Constitution over time. Introduces students to prominent figures in Constitutional  thought, issues in Constitutional interpretation, and contemporary legal struggles. 
POS 312 3 hours 
Political Behavior 
A description and examination of the voting behavior of the American people and  opinions about candidates, political parties and public policy. Some attention is also  given to the formation of public opinion in a democratic polity. Meets general social  science requirement. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
POS 321 3 hours 
Modern Middle East 
A political history of Southwest Asia and North Africa in the 20th century. Special  attention is given to the variety of governments in the region, Islam and politics and  domestic and international conflict. Meets general social science requirement. Offered  Spring semester. 
POS 325 3 hours 
American Foreign Policy 
Uses case studies of major events in U.S. foreign relations since World War II to  consider the relationship between morality and politics. Includes an overview of  the process of making and implementing foreign policy within the U.S. government.  Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
POS 327 3 hours 
International Law and Justice 
International Law and Justice offers students an overview of the role of law in  international affairs and the benefits and challenges of supranational legal structures,  including international organizations, conventions, and other bilateral and  multilateral arrangements. The course will commence with an analysis of the  foundational definitions and components of international law and the often complicated relationships between domestic legal systems and international legal  frameworks. Students then will explore in greater depth several specific content  areas of international law, including trade, the environment, security, and human  rights. The course also will provide an opportunity for critical engagement with  the concept of justice in the development and application of international law,  particularly for vulnerable and marginalized individuals and communities, as well as  the theological foundations of justice. Throughout the course, students will have  opportunities to discuss the unique expectations and opportunities for Christ  followers to pursue justice in a global context. 
POS 331 3 hours 
Public Policy 
An extensive examination of the interaction between Congress and the Presidency  in making public policy. The course focuses on major theories of public policy and  examines governmental policy-making from these perspectives. Meets civic  engagement or general social science requirement. Offered Fall semester. 
POS 344 3 hours 
Campaigns and Elections 
This course will examine the foundation and development of campaigns and  elections in the US. In addition, it will also focus on the role of political parties and  media and political communication. Students will engage in actual campaign and  electoral behavior activity. Participation as a volunteer in an actual campaign is  expected as part of course requirements. Recommended course pre-requisite: POS  100 and sophomore standing. Offered every two years coinciding with fall election cycle. 
POS 345 3 hours 
Congress and the Presidency 
Studies congressional processes such as leadership, committees and rules and the  role of the President in American politics. Special emphasis is given to the  interaction between Congress and the President in formulating public policy.  Offered Spring semester of even years. 
POS 350 3 hours 
International Security 
The concept of security is used very frequently in relation to international issues.  This course introduces students to the study of international security, including  theoretical, normative, and policy issues. Offered January interterm. 
POS 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
POS 361 3 hours 
Western Political Thought 
A survey of major thinkers from Plato to the present through discussion of  perennial issues such as individualism and community, liberty and equality and  governmental power. Offered Fall semester. 
POS 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering. 
POS 374 3 hours 
Religious Liberty and Christian Freedom 
This course introduces students to the subject of religious liberty and Christian  freedom, analyzing the nature of freedom and the position of Christianity as  foundational to liberty. Students are then exposed to a comparative analysis of  hostility and persecution, its development, and its typology. Offered Spring semester. 
POS 385 3 hours 
Constitutional Law I: Foundation  
Considers the development of judicial review in relation to the powers of the  President and Congress. Focuses on judicial interpretations of the commerce and  taxing clauses, as well as state powers under the due process clause of the 14th Amendment. Offered Fall semester. 
POS 386 3 hours 
Constitutional Law II: Civil Liberties and Rights 
Focus is on the Bill of Rights and the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment.  Considers such topics as freedoms of speech, press and religion, the civil rights  movement and the controversy over privacy rights. Offered Spring semester. 
POS 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
POS 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. Advanced work under the supervision of a professor in  connection with a special project or to enhance preparation for graduate work. 
POS 462 3 hours 
Theories of International Relations 
International Relations as a discipline has always been characterized by the  extensive and significant theoretical ferment. This course will provide an overview  of key theoretical traditions in International Relations and their evolution and  contestations in recent year. Offered in odd years. 
POS 465 2 hours 
Senior Paper 
A journal-length analytical research paper based on scholarship in the field that is  related to the student’s chosen topic. Fulfills the senior comprehensive  requirement. 
POS 467 3 hours 
Senior Seminar 
Senior Seminar is designed to accomplish three goals: 1) engage the political science  graduating seniors in an overall assessment of the theory and practice of political  science and international relations, largely through approved and required readings  and writing projects; 2) provide the opportunity for political science graduating  seniors to develop a comprehensive and integrative faith and learning component  into a final research and writing project; and 3) to provide political science  graduating seniors to present their research findings before an on campus and/or  off campus audience, including faculty and peers. 
POS 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
POS 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
SOS 309 2 hours 
Teaching Social Studies in Secondary, Junior High/Middle School
This course is a junior level secondary social studies methods course in which various aspects of classroom instruction are addressed including standards, unit and lesson planning, teaching strategies, questioning and critical thinking skills, P-12 student learning, and assessment. Prerequisites: EDU 150 and EDU 260. 