HNR 120 2 hours 
Global Paradigms of Leadership 
This seminar style course will explore leadership from diverse, global perspectives. Students will engage leaders and leadership styles from other cultures, studying how  the Christian faith integrates into diverse leadership structures.  
HNR 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering. 
HNR 225 1 hour 
Honors Colloquium 
The Honors colloquium is an interdisciplinary course which brings together a  group of like-minded students to discuss a variety of topics with a focus on the  year's theme. Requirements for this course include attending a variety of campus  lectures and events and engaging in dialogue around “big ideas” in culture,  Christianity, and public discourse. Students will have the opportunity to facilitate  discussion of a topic of their choosing. May be repeated for credit. 
HNR 264 4 hours 
Going Up to Glory: Migration and Voice in African American Lives
This interdisciplinary course presents an integrative survey of African American  literature and history from African origins through the modern civil rights movement.  The historical focus is on the three major migrations African Americans have  experienced during this period. Literary selections from multiple genres will span  these eras and highlight the development and patterns of African American voice.  Meets both the foundational core literature and history requirements. Prerequisite: ENG 110. 
HNR 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.
HNR 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic. 
HNR 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering. 
HNR 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
HNR 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such  facilities as the library or laboratory. 
HNR 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
HNR 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field.