Humanities 
Humanities courses carry an interdisciplinary focus and are directly related to more than one single academic area. These courses include curricular  offerings in arts, music, and theatre arts. 
Humanities Courses
	



HUM 120 4 hours 
Survey of 20th Century Music and Art  
A lecture and on-location course focusing on 20th century musical and visual  art. This course exists to develop students' perceptual skills, and encourage  artistic literacy particularly as these concepts were conveyed during the past  century. A major focus of this course is experiencing art and music. Written  critiques on selected events are a vital part of the course curriculum. The 300- 
level version of this course includes an additional research project. Meets a  foundational core fine arts requirement. 
HUM 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
HUM 230 4 hours 
Art as Experience 
Lecture sessions focus upon works from several art forms, with the goal of  developing students’ perceptual skills. A major focus of this course is  experiencing art. Written critiques on selected events are part of the course  curriculum. Meets a foundational core fine arts requirement. 
HUM 250 1 hour 
Participation in the Arts 
This course fulfills the foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  Students may also take a music ensemble or private music lesson to fulfill this  requirement. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement. Credit  only. 
HUM 250A Drama 
HUM 250AE Acting for Everyone 
HUM 250B Books 
HUM 250C Ceramics 
HUM 250D Drawing 
HUM 250E Enameling 
HUM 250FD Folk Dances of Other Cultures 
HUM 250J Jewelry 
HUM 250L Metals 
HUM 250P Photography 
HUM 250PW Printmaking-Woodcutting 
HUM 250SC Sculpture-Ceramics 
HUM 250W Watercolor 
HUM 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  164
HUM 320 4 hours 
Survey of 20th Century Music and Art  
See HUM 120. 
HUM 330 4 hours 
Arts and Ideas 
This interdisciplinary course investigates the nature of human culture and  creativity as prime aspects of what it means to be human through a  consideration of the arts. Focusing on the visual arts, music, theater, and film,  this course emphasizes the consideration of works within their original  historical and cultural contexts and the ideas that inform them. Through  discussion, collaborative and active learning assignments, and hands-on projects,  students engage a wide range of frameworks for understanding human creativity  and the arts from a multitude of disciplines as varied as psychology, marketing,  neuroscience, and Christian theology. Meets a foundational core fine arts  requirement. 
HUM 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
HUM 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
HUM 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project.  Generally, one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of  practicum experience. Offered primarily during Summer. 
HUM 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such  facilities as the library or laboratory. 
HUM 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
HUM 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field.