Interarea Studies 
Interarea courses are general in scope and exist apart from any single academic area. For additional course offerings, refer to the Academic Enrichment  Center and Student Development sections of this catalog. 
Interarea Courses
	



IAS 102 1 hour 
Orientation to Distance Learning 
This course is an introduction to Blackboard, TU Online history and staff, and  University policies that pertain to the distance learner. An overview of learning  styles and time management strategies make up the content of the course which  is supplemented by John Stott's Your Mind Matters. Student will use Blackboard  communication tools to complete assignments. This course is offered through Taylor  University Online (TUO). 
IAS 110 4 hours 
Foundations of the Christian Liberal Arts 
This course is an introduction to the liberal arts, the integration of faith and  learning, the foundational core, improved learning, and the transition to college.  Through large group lectures and small group discussion sessions, the themes  of right relationship with God, self, others, and the world are developed.  Required of all students. Meets foundational core requirement. Offered Fall semester. 
IAS 111 3 hours 
God, Humanity, and Knowledge 
An interdisciplinary introduction to the liberal arts and the integration of faith  and learning. Through lectures, readings, films, and discussion, the course  intentionally seeks to challenge students to be more confident in the  development of a meaningful belief system. For students enrolled in two-week pre 
college summer program. Meets foundational core requirement for IAS 110. Offered  Summer term. 
IAS 120 1 hour 
Introduction to International Ministry 
To prepare for Lighthouse projects, students study the concept of culture,  American cultural distinctives, and the cultural, religious and historical  characteristics of Lighthouse host nations. Students examine the components  of effective intercultural ministry and communicating faith in Christ cross 
culturally. Attention is given to personal character, spiritual life, commitment, and teamwork essential for effective service. Offered Fall semester. Grade only. 
IAS 125 1 hour 
Short-Term Missions Engagement 
This course is designed to prepare students for and involve them in a spring break  ministry experience within the framework of service-learning. Students will receive  training specific to the ministry in which they will participate, experience a pre-trip  local service experience with their team, participate in an 8-10 day spring break  missions project, and reflect upon what they are learning throughout the course.  Through participation in this course, students should have a greater understanding of  an involvement in the Christian call to service. Concepts related to a life of service  will be addressed including evangelism, cultural awareness, team dynamics, meaningful  service, reflection, debriefing, and stewardship. Offered Spring semester. 
IAS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
IAS 230 1 hour 
Issues in Science and Religion 
An interdisciplinary examination of key issues underlying the relationship of  science and Christianity, focusing on issues concerning creation, the fall, the  flood, and the world in which we live today. The course will be a focus on  general scientific concepts and theological principles involved in the integration  of faith and learning. Counts as one elective credit in either physics or religion and  toward foundational core science credits. 
166
IAS 231H 2 hours 
Issues in Science and Religion 
A more in depth interdisciplinary examination of key issues underlying the  relationship of science and Christianity, focusing on issues concerning creation,  the fall, the flood, and the world in which we live today. The course will be a  focus on general scientific concepts and theological principles involved in the  integration of faith and learning. Students will pursue research into a particular  issue within this area, as well as more in depth study groups. Counts as elective  credit in both physics and religion and toward foundational core science credits. 
IAS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
IAS 320 3 hours 
Cross-Cultural Outreach 
Through this Lighthouse service-learning experience, students are immersed in  another culture and provide needed service to gain cross-cultural  understanding, interpersonal and skill development and spiritual growth.  Emphasis is given to reflection on God’s global purposes, intercultural  relationships and life stewardship. Prerequisite: IAS 120 or permission of instructor.  Meets foundational core cross-cultural requirement. Offered January Interterm. 
IAS 340 1-2 hours 
Lewis and Related Authors Seminar 
A seminar offered by the Center for the Study of C. S. Lewis and Friends focusing  on the works of authors represented in the Edwin W. Brown Collection: C. S.  Lewis, George MacDonald, Dorothy Sayers, Charles Williams, and Owen  Barfield as well as related authors. An interdisciplinary course which seeks to  encourage scholarship and critical thinking. Specific topics vary from semester  to semester. May be repeated three times for credit. Open to all students. 
IAS 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
IAS 373 1 hour 
Conversations on Race 
This course is designed to help students explore the topic of race through readings,  discussions, media presentations, and reflection on personal and field experiences. It  will guide students in a meaningful thought process and dialogue that will allow them  to consider their own racial identity, the meaning of race in interpersonal relationships  on this campus and in society, as well as the important connection between Christian  faith and race in the church and American society. An emphasis will be placed upon  creating a safe environment where questions and dissent will be respected and  welcomed, resulting in learning for all involved.  
IAS 403 4 hours 
A Christian Worldview 
A foundational course designed to introduce students to a Christian worldview.  Attention is given to the definition, function, formation, and evaluation of  worldview. The course then explores significant biblical and theological  perspectives on the ultimate issues of life, including God’s purposes for humans,  the reality of sin, God’s redemption of humanity, and the ultimate realization of  glory. Students will also learn how the church historically has faced these issues  and how these issues have shaped the church. This course is offered through  Taylor University Online (TUO). 
IAS 495 1 hour 
Senior Seminar 
Senior Seminar is an integrative, interdisciplinary foundational core requirement. Students will register for it during either the Fall or Spring  semester of their senior year. Meets foundational core requirement.