DAN 221 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor I: Ballet 
This course is designed to teach positions, steps, terminology, and introductory level  skills that form the basis of ballet technique. Barre exercises, center exercises including  adagio, petite allegro and grand allegro, and quality stretching for a dancer’s workout will  be taught and perfected. Additionally, there will be an introduction to various notable  performers and some of the historical and cultural aspects of ballet, presented through  discussion and video observations. Meets foundational core participation in the arts  requirement. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
DAN 222 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor II: Jazz 
This course is designed to teach positions, steps, terminology, and introductory level skills  that form the basis of jazz technique. A brief study of Luigi, Fosse, and contemporary jazz  will be introduced. Stretches appropriate for the increase of flexibility and support will  be stressed and perfected. Additionally, there will be an introduction to various notable  performers and some of the historical and cultural aspects of jazz, presented through  discussion and video observations. Jazz, contemporary and modern, techniques will be  explored in this class. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement. 
Offered every fourth Spring semester (alternates with DAN 221, 223, 224). 
DAN 223 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor III: Tap 
This course is designed to teach positions, steps, terminology, and introductory level  skills that form the basic tap technique. This course will be an elementary level of tap,  teaching the basics steps in tap dancing. Theatre tap will be focused on in this class and  taught while learning some invaluable time steps for future use in auditions and  professional work. Additionally, there will be an introduction to various notable  performers and some of the historical and cultural aspects of tap, presented through  discussion and video observations. Meets foundational core participation in the arts  requirement. Offered every fourth Spring semester (alternates with DAN 221, 222, 224).  
DAN 224 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor IV: Musical Theatre Styles
This course is designed to develop technique and ability from all aspects of dance (ballet,  jazz, and tap) and incorporate them into performance of Musical Theatre. Students will  be taught the importance of routine, weekly classes, and flexibility to maintain their craft.  Classwork in stretching, small combinations, and a longer musical theatre dance will be  incorporated in every class. Additionally, there will be an introduction to various  notable performers and choreographers of Broadway and theatre, presented through  discussion and video observations. Meets foundational core participation in the arts  requirement. Offered every fourth Spring semester (alternates with DAN 221, 222, 223). 
DAN 231 1 hour 
Technique: Ballet 
This intermediate ballet course will provide progression, barre, center, and floor  exercises, with an opportunity for pre-pointe work, floor barre, conditioning, and  variations. Advanced level technique allows for the refinement of intermediate skills  and breathing techniques for muscular strength and endurance exercises. 
DAN 232 1 hour 
Technique: Modern  
This intermediate modern dance class focuses on proper technique, performing  complex combinations, and developing a personal style of each individual dancer. Self discovery, discipline, and expression in the modern dance form will be encouraged and  explored. 
DAN 241 3 hours 
Dance History 
Study the history of dance by learning the evolution of dance through the years,  important choreographers and performers, how dance styles throughout the world  have influenced mainstream, and where dance has been and where it is going. Offered  Fall semester of odd years. 
DAN 242 3 hours 
Dance Pedagogy 
Develop a strong knowledge in the classroom as an instructor. Learn to find  corrections, know what to look for in ballet and modern technique, how to give  corrections, and the proper flow of a class. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
DAN 322 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor II: Jazz 
See DAN 222. 
DAN 323 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor III: Tap 
See DAN 223. 
DAN 324 2 hours 
Dance Technique for the Actor IV: Musical Theatre Styles 
See DAN 224. 
DAN 331 1 hour 
Technique: Ballet 
See DAN 231. 
DAN 332 1 hour 
Technique: Modern  
See DAN 232. 
DAN 333 1 hour 
Pointe 
This course serves as an advance in the development of the student's skills in ballet. A  focus is on specific ballet techniques and performance qualities in ballet. Offered Spring  semester of even years. 
DAN 334 3 hours 
Dance Improvisation and Composition 
This course concentrates on techniques of improvisation and dance choreography:  improvisation in both singular and contact, composition in forms of ballet, modern,  and musical theatre production. Offered Fall semester of even years. 
DAN 383 1-4 hours 
Applications in Technique 
Application of study will serve as a practical measure of learning and expertise. The  student will either serve as a teaching assistant for a modern, ballet, tap, jazz, or musical  theatre class, or serve as dance captain in a faculty directed production. 
MUS 100 1 hour 
Applied Lesson 
Learning practice methods, building good techniques, acquiring sufficient repertoire,  gaining a broad knowledge of literature and composers, and achieving performance  skills. Lessons are designed for music majors and minors (registration overrides will be  required for minors). Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement. Lessons  are ½ hour and 1 hour. 
MUS 100B Applied Lesson—Brass 
MUS 100G Applied Lesson—Guitar 
MUS 100K Applied Lesson—Piano 
MUS 100N Applied Lesson—Organ  
MUS 100P Applied Lesson—Percussion 
MUS 100S Applied Lesson—Strings 
MUS 100V Applied Lesson—Voice 
MUS 100W Applied Lesson—Woodwind 
MUS 101 1 hour 
Music Theory 
A remedial course in the rudiments of music designed to prepare the beginning  music major/minor for entrance into the music theory cycle. Consists of integrated  laboratory experience for development of written, aural and keyboard skills.  Proficiency placement test offered during Fall welcome weekend. Offered Fall semester. 
MUS 105 1 hour 
Applied Lesson 
Private instruction designed for personal enrichment and development of musical  talent. Content determined by contract with instructor at the beginning of each  semester. Lessons are designed for non-majors and meets the foundational core participation in the arts requirement. Lessons are ½ hour.  
MUS 105B Applied Lesson—Brass 
MUS 105G Applied Lesson—Guitar 
MUS 105K Applied Lesson—Piano 
MUS 105N Applied Lesson—Organ  
MUS 105P Applied Lesson—Percussion 
MUS 105S Applied Lesson—Strings 
MUS 105V Applied Lesson—Voice 
MUS 105W Applied Lesson—Woodwind 
MUS 111P 1 hour 
Piano 
Applied class instruction in piano for students with little or no previous training.  Development of techniques with repertoire appropriate to the elementary level.  Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 112P 1 hour 
Piano 
See MUS 111P. 
MUS 118 2 hours 
Vocal Diction I 
A study of the International Phonetic Alphabet and its application for singers in  Italian, German, French, and English. Students will use classical and contemporary  texts and songs as their basis of study. This class is to be taken in conjunction with  Applied Lessons, supplying a firm foundation for future study. Required of all Voice  specialties and Musical Theatre majors. Offered Spring semester. 
MUS 119 1 hour 
Vocal Diction II 
A study of English, French, Italian, and German diction and its application in songs  and arias. A working knowledge of the International Phonetic Alphabet is utilized  as a learning tool. This class is to be taken in conjunction with applied lessons,  supplying a firm foundation for future study. Required of all voice and musical theatre  majors and minors. Prerequisite: MUS 118 or permission of instructor. Offered Fall semester. 
MUS 121 2 hours 
Seminar in Composition I 
Original composition in elementary and advanced forms. Emphasis is on development  of individual style of expression. Prerequisite: MUS 101 or permission of instructor.  
MUS 122 2 hours 
Seminar in Composition II 
Original composition in elementary and advanced forms. Continued emphasis is on  development of individual style of expression. Prerequisite: MUS 121 or permission of instructor.  
MUS 124 3 hours 
Music Theory and Harmony I 
A study of the basic structural elements of tonal theory and harmony. Topics  covered include construction of 7th chords, principles of part writing and voice  leading, melodic phrase analysis, diatonic harmonic progression (including function  progression, cadence types, and non-harmonic chord tones), and analysis of small  forms. Prerequisite: MUS 101 or successful passing of music department’s Music Theory  placement exam. Corequisite: MUS 124L. Offered Fall semester and January interterm. 
MUS 124L 1 hour 
Music Theory and Harmony I Lab 
A laboratory experience that is designed to reinforce the content covered in MUS  124 through the development of aural and keyboard skills. Corequisite: MUS 124.  Offered Fall semester and January interterm. 
MUS 125 3 hours 
Music Theory and Harmony II 
A continuation of Music Theory and Harmony I. An intermediate study in the  principles of tonal harmonic progression, with an emphasis on the principles of  chromaticism and modulation. Topics will include secondary dominants (vocabulary  and part writing), closely related key structures, modulation types (common chard,  chromatic, phrase, and sequential), and analysis of binary, ternary and sonata forms.  Prerequisite: MUS 124 and 124L. Corequisite: MUS 125L. Offered Spring semester. 
MUS 125L 1 hour 
Music Theory and Harmony II Lab 
A laboratory experience that is designed to reinforce the content covered in MUS 125 through  the development of aural and keyboard skills. Corequisite: MUS 125. Offered Spring semester. 
MUS 132 2 hours 
Survey of Music History 
This course will explore the basic elements of music. It is a survey course of music  history and literature in the Western-European tradition, with emphasis on the major  composers, genres, forms, stylistic characteristics and aesthetic principles of the  various eras. The survey also includes a review of the American Vernacular music  culture, emphasizing the collateral influence it and European art music had on each other. 
MUS 135 2 hours 
Introduction to Music Education 
An introduction to the field of music education (P-12, general, choral, instrumental)  in general, and the areas of licensure (performance, knowledge, and dispositions)  that need to be demonstrated and documented in particular. The IPSB  components—Indiana Standards, technology, diversity, service learning, literacy,  exceptionality, P-12 proficiencies, induction and portfolio development and  assessment—will be introduced in class. In addition, an all-day field trip will be  taken to observe the music program in a model school and attendance will be  expected at the IMEA state conference. Offered Fall semester. 
MUS 149 2-3 hours 
Music Appreciation 
An introduction to the art of music and its materials. A course designed to develop  greater understanding and appreciation of music and the various historical periods.  Considerable attention is given to listening to recordings and studying the lives of  leading composers. May satisfy the music-portion of a foundational core fine arts  requirement. This course is offered through Taylor University Online (TUO). 
MUS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
MUS 200 2 hours 
Applied Lesson 
Learning practice methods, building good techniques, acquiring sufficient repertoire,  gaining a broad knowledge of literature and composers, and achieving performance  skills. Lessons are designed for music majors and minors (registration overrides will be required for minors). Lessons are 1 hour. 
MUS 200B Applied Lesson—Brass 
MUS 200C Applied Lesson—Composition 
MUS 200G Applied Lesson—Guitar 
MUS 200K Applied Lesson—Piano 
MUS 200N Applied Lesson—Organ  
MUS 200P Applied Lesson—Percussion 
MUS 200S Applied Lesson—Strings 
MUS 200V Applied Lesson—Voice 
MUS 200W Applied Lesson—Woodwind 
MUS 201 1 hour 
Computers, Technology, and Music 
This is a preliminary-level instructional course designed to train the music major in  the knowledge and applications of computer and MIDI systems as used in the music  profession. Emphasis is placed on acquiring basic knowledge and skills in MIDI and  hardware systems, synthesizer performance, sequencing and desktop publishing.  Basic keyboard skills are essential. Includes a supervised lab each week.  Prerequisites: MUS 124 and 124L; or permission of the instructor. 
MUS 210AC 1 hour 
Adoration Chorus (Female Chorus) 
A choral ensemble open by audition to all women at Taylor University. This choir  utilizes contemporary sacred choral arrangements, spirituals, and praise and  worship songs as a means of ministering. Pursuing vocal excellence, the Adoration  Chorus focuses on leading others in worship, performing in churches, university  functions, schools, and community venues. Meets foundational core participation in the  arts requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours;  0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core participation in the arts requirement. 
MUS 210GM 1 hour 
Exploration of Global Music Ensemble 
Exploration of Global Music Ensemble is an ensemble of singers and instrumentalists.  Students will experience hands-on exploration of traditional musical repertoires from  around the world. Students will perform on instruments and sing songs from Asia,  Africa, and many countries around the world. Sometimes these styles are learned  aurally/orally or with different kinds of musical notation. No prior experience with  western music notation is necessary. This ensemble is opened to all students. Singers and instrumentalists are welcomed. 
MUS 210HC 1 hour 
Handbell Choir 
The Handbell Choir is open to students with bell ringing experience, as well as to  students with no previous experience who are willing to learn the art of bell ringing.  The group performs in chapel, as well as in programs on and off campus. Meets  foundational core participation in the arts requirement when taken for credit. Students may  register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational  core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210JC 1 hour 
Jazz Combo 
The Jazz Combo is a selected ensemble by audition. The combo explores  improvisatory stylings and performs a concert each semester. Beginning,  intermediate and advanced level instruction is given. Meets foundational core  participation in the arts requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to  participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core  participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210JE 1 hour 
Jazz Ensemble 
The Jazz Ensemble is open to all wind and percussion players by audition. It performs  contemporary stage band literature, as well as the jazz classics. This ensemble  performs a concert each semester and tours in local schools and regional festivals.  Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement when taken for credit. Students  may register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational  core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210LT 1 hour 
Lyric Theatre 
The Lyric Theatre program supports the liberal arts mission of Taylor University  by providing a broad range of performance experiences that span historic and  contemporary operatic and music theatre periods, genres, and styles. Lyric Theatre  is open to all students by audition. Performances include fully-staged productions  and semi-staged “scenes” productions. The primary goal of the ensemble is to  create live performances in which students demonstrate dramatic confidence, vocal ease, and aesthetic sensibility. Meets foundational core participation in the arts  requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours;  0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210PB 1 hour 
Pep Band 
The Pep Band is open to all students who enjoy performing contemporary music  at football and basketball home games. (No audition required.) Meets foundational core  participation in the arts requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to  participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core  participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210TR 1 hour 
Taylor Ringers 
The Taylor Ringers consists of 13 members chosen by audition. The group  performs a variety of 4-5 octave literature of a moderate-to-difficult nature on  campus and during tours each spring. Meets foundational core participation in the arts  requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours;  0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210TS 1 hour 
Taylor Sounds 
The Taylor Sounds is a select group of musicians dedicated to a high standard of  chamber choral performance. The goal of the group is to learn a breadth of quality  musical styles by notable composers. The mission of the ensemble is to express the  highest divine and human values through the choral chamber music art. Performance  tours include domestic and overseas venues, as well as conferences, conventions and  banquets. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement when taken for  credit. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill  foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 210UC 1 hour 
University Chorus 
The University Chorus is a mixed choral ensemble open by audition to all men and  women at Taylor University. The chorus sings diverse literature from all historic  periods and performs on campus in chapel and concerts. Meets foundational core  participation in the arts requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to  participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core  participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 224 3 hours 
Music Theory and Harmony III 
A continuation of Theory and Harmony II. Advanced studies in the principles of  extended tonal harmony, including introduction to hyper-tonal and post-tonal  concepts as found in the early 20th century. Topics will include chromatic chord vocabulary and part writing practice, foreign-key and enharmonic modulation,  consecutive and passing regions, inferred tonality technique, early twentieth  century structural concepts, and analysis of ritornell/fugue forms. Prerequisite: MUS  125 and 125L. Corequisite: MUS 224L. Offered Fall semester. 
MUS 224L 1 hour 
Music Theory and Harmony III Lab 
A laboratory experience that is designed to reinforce the content covered in MUS  224 through the development of aural and keyboard skills. Corequisite: MUS 224.  Offered Fall semester. 
MUS 240 1 hour 
Taylor University Chorale 
The Taylor Chorale is open to all Taylor students on an audition basis. Repertoire  consists of music drawn from the spectrum of sacred choral works. The mission  of the ensemble is to express the highest divine and human values through the  choral arts. Performances include domestic and international tours, as well as  concerts for conferences and conventions. Performance of sacred works with  professional orchestras are also part of the chorale tradition. Meets foundational  core participation in the arts requirement when taken for credit. Students may register to  participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill foundational core  participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 243 3 hours 
Music and World Cultures 
An investigative study of selected non-Western cultures and the role of music  within the cultures. Three components are basic principles of culture and basic  principles of music, Asian culture and music, and African culture and music. This  cross-cultural course is open to all students. Upper-division credit requires a paper  pertaining to music and a culture of the student’s choice. Offered January interterm. 
MUS 245 3 hours 
Foundations of Worship Arts 
Biblical and musical foundations of Christian worship ministry. A survey of various  worship styles including historic and contemporary worship formats. Principles of  leadership and creativity in worship planning will be discussed. Open to all majors.  Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
MUS 250 1 hour 
Audio Visual Technologies in the Church 
A study of the use of technology in the modern Christian Church including sound  reinforcement, video projection, computer assisted worship, and lighting formats.  This course will have a practical application component which includes laboratory  work with the chapel media technicians. Offered January interterm of odd years. 
MUS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
MUS 280 1 hour 
Wind Ensemble 
The wind ensemble is open to all wind and percussion players by audition. The  Wind Ensemble performs the classic and contemporary wind repertoire, sacred,  pops and pep band literature. The wind ensemble presents one full concert  program each semester. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement  when taken for credit. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit  registration does not fulfill foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 290 1 hour 
Symphony Orchestra 
The Symphony Orchestra is open to all string, wind and percussion players by  audition. The symphony orchestra performs selected masterworks of the  symphonic repertoire written for full orchestra from each of the major historical  periods. The symphony orchestra performs one full concert program each  semester. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement when taken for  credit. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does  not fulfill foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  
MUS 292 3 hours 
Introduction to Electronic Music 
Emphasis is placed on working with current technology with the objective of an  introduction to the aesthetics and types of electronic music, creating an electronic  composition as a final project. Prerequisite: MUS 201. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
MUS 300 1 hour 
Applied Lesson 
Learning practice methods, building good techniques, acquiring sufficient repertoire,  gaining a broad knowledge of literature and composers, and achieving performance  skills. Lessons are designed for music majors and minors (registration overrides will be  required for minors). Lessons are 1 hour. 
MUS 300B Applied Lesson—Brass 
MUS 300G Applied Lesson—Guitar 
MUS 300K Applied Lesson—Piano 
MUS 300N Applied Lesson—Organ  
MUS 300P Applied Lesson—Percussion 
MUS 300S Applied Lesson—Strings 
MUS 300V Applied Lesson—Voice 
MUS 300W Applied Lesson—Woodwind 
MUS 301 2 hours 
Music in the Elementary Classroom 
This course consists of three components: (1) an overview of the basics of music  (rhythm, melody, harmony, form, tone color); (2) an introduction to musical skills  (singing, playing a recorder, conducting - and rhythm band instruments); and (3)  methods and materials for teaching music (especially those related to the Kodaly  and Orff methodologies). Prerequisite or corequisite: EDU 260. 
MUS 309 3 hours 
Secondary School Methods 
An introduction to the methods and materials for teaching general music,  instrumental music and choral music at the secondary level. Prerequisites: EDU 150  and 260. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
MUS 310AC 1 hour 
Adoration Chorus (Female Chorus) 
See MUS 210AC. 
MUS 310CM 1 hour 
Chamber Music 
Performance experience in chamber music organized by department faculty to  provide interactive music making experiences. Offered as independent study with  area faculty members. Meets foundational core participation in the arts requirement.  Prerequisite: junior status. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
MUS 310GM 1 hour 
Exploration of Global Music Ensemble 
See MUS 210GM. 
MUS 310HC 1 hour 
Handbell Choir 
See MUS 210HC. 
MUS 310JC 1 hour 
Jazz Combo 
See MUS 210JC. 
MUS 310JE 1 hour 
Jazz Ensemble 
See MUS 210JE. 
MUS 310LT 1 hour 
Lyric Theatre 
See MUS 210LT. 
MUS 310PB 1 hour 
Pep Band 
See MUS 210PB. 
MUS 310TR 1 hour 
Taylor Ringers 
See MUS 210TR. 
MUS 310TS 1 hour 
Taylor Sounds 
See MUS 210TS. 
MUS 310UC 1 hour 
University Chorus 
See MUS 210UC. 
MUS 311 3 hours 
Elementary School Music 
A study of the role of the music specialist in planning musical experiences for  children, with emphasis on child development, music literature, teaching aids,  and teaching practices, utilizing recorders and Orff Instruments. Curriculum  development and the organization of the elementary school music program are also  included. A laboratory experience is also included. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
MUS 320 1-4 hours 
Internship 
In-depth experience with a minister of music involving responsibilities in various  phases of the church music program, including administration, organization,  rehearsal and worship. 
MUS 323 1 hour 
Functional Keyboard Skills 
The facilitating of practical keyboard skills, including scales, chords, arpeggios, sight  reading and harmonization of melodies at sight. In addition, students complete the  requirements needed for transposition, score reading and accompanying in order  to pass the Piano Proficiency. Offered Spring semester. 
MUS 331 1 hour 
Instrumental Methods III—Percussion 
Class instruction in percussion instruments. Designed to acquaint music education specialists,  composition students, and church musicians with basic techniques for performing, arranging, and teaching percussion instruments. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
MUS 332 1 hour 
Instrumental Methods IV—Strings 
Class instruction in string instruments. Designed to acquaint music education specialists, composition students, and church musicians with basic techniques for performing, arranging, and teaching orchestral stringed instruments. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
MUS 340 1 hour 
Taylor University Chorale 
See MUS 240. 
MUS 342 3 hours 
Advanced Form and Analysis 
Exploration of representative works after 1600 through the lens of formal  structure, harmonic analysis, and counterpoint, with an emphasis on the stylistic  aspects of music. Prerequisites or corequisites: MUS 125 and 125L. Offered Spring  semester of even years. 
MUS 343 3 hours 
Music and World Cultures 
See MUS 243. 
MUS 345 3 hours 
Twenty Centuries of Christian Song 
An introduction to the use of Christian congregational song through historical survey  and theological reflection of music and lyrics from chant to rhythm-section led music.  Additional focus on how to include a variety of song types in Christian worship and  ways to introduce music to congregations.  
MUS 346 1 hour 
Instrumental Methods I—Brass Instruments 
Class instruction in various brass instruments. Designed to acquaint music  education specialists, composition students and church musicians with basic  performance problems, arranging and teaching techniques of the brasses. Offered  Fall semester of even years. 
MUS 347 1 hour 
Instrumental Methods II—Woodwinds 
Class instruction in various woodwind instruments. Designed to acquaint music  education specialists, composition students and church musicians with basic  techniques for teaching, arranging and playing woodwind instruments. Offered  Spring semester of odd years. 
MUS 351 2 hours 
Choral Arranging 
A course on the ranges, tonal possibilities, and technical limitations of the different  voices and the analysis of scores of standard choral compositions. Arranging and  adapting scores for various vocal combinations are included. Prerequisites or  corequisites: MUS 125 and 125L. Offered Fall semester of even years. 
MUS 352 2 hours 
Instrumental Arranging 
Band and orchestral instruments are studied with a view to practical and effective  writing. Arranging of compositions for various instrumental combinations is  included. Prerequisites or corequisites: MUS 125 and 125L. Offered Fallsemester of odd years. 
MUS 357 3 hours 
Resources and Methodologies in the Worship Arts 
A study of the organization, administration and operation of the Christian church music  program. Areas of study include the graded children’s choir program, adult choir ministry,  praise team ministry, and utilization of various instruments. Open to music majors and minors.  Prerequisite: MUS 245 or permission of instructor. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
MUS 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
MUS 361 3 hours 
Conducting I 
An introduction to the psychological, technical and musical elements of choral conducting.  Study of musical scores of choral literature is also stressed. Offered Fall semester. 
MUS 362 3 hours 
Conducting II 
Continuation of MUS 361 with emphasis on advanced score studies, conducting, and rehearsal techniques of instrumental works. Lab experience with band and  orchestra ensembles is included. Prerequisite: MUS 361 or permission of the instructor.  Offered Spring semester. 
MUS 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
MUS 371 3 hours 
Music History and Literature I 
An introduction to western music and styles from the Middle Ages to the Classical  period. Stylistic cognizance is acquired through examination of prevailing musical  idioms, forms and literature. Composers, performers and historical figures that  influenced music history are also examined briefly, as well as terminology and  vocabulary common to musicology. Prerequisites: MUS 124 and MUS 132. Offered Fall  semester. 
MUS 372 3 hours 
Music History and Literature II 
An introduction to western music and musical style from the Romantic period to  the present. Stylistic cognizance is acquired through examination of prevailing  musical idioms, forms and literature. Composers, performers, and historical figures  that influence music history are also examined, as well as terminology and  vocabulary common to musicology. Prerequisites: MUS 124 and MUS 132. Offered  Spring semester. 
MUS 380 1 hour 
Wind Ensemble 
See MUS 280. 
MUS 381 2 hours 
Piano Pedagogy I 
A study of the methods and materials of teaching beginning piano students.  Supervised teaching experience is included. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
MUS 382 2 hours 
Piano Pedagogy II 
A study of the methods and materials of teaching intermediate keyboard students.  Supervised teaching experience is included. Offered Fall semester of even years. 
MUS 390 1 hour 
Symphony Orchestra 
See MUS 290. 
MUS 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer.  
MUS 400 2-4 hours 
Applied Lesson 
Learning practice methods, building good techniques, acquiring sufficient repertoire,  gaining a broad knowledge of literature and composers, and achieving performance  skills. Lessons are designed for music majors and minors (registration overrides will be required for minors). Lessons are 1 hour.  
MUS 400B Applied Lesson—Brass 
MUS 400C Applied Lesson—Composition 
MUS 400G Applied Lesson—Guitar 
MUS 400K Applied Lesson—Piano 
MUS 400N Applied Lesson—Organ  
MUS 400P Applied Lesson—Percussion 
MUS 400S Applied Lesson—Strings 
MUS 400V Applied Lesson—Voice 
MUS 400W Applied Lesson—Woodwind 
MUS 440 3 hours 
Vocal Pedagogy and Literature 
Introduction to the scientific principles and theories of vocal production. Guides  the student in building an appropriate repertoire of pedagogic materials and  repertoire choices through class demonstration, discussion, and examination of  current pedagogical attitudes and research. Class members are required to observe  and teach voice lessons. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
MUS 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
MUS 462 1 hour 
Instrumental Pedagogy 
Explores techniques and materials related to the teaching of instruments. A  supervised lab experience is included. 
MUS 463 1 hour 
Instrumental Literature 
A study of the literature of specific instruments from various historical periods with  emphasis placed on current practice. Graded method books and technical materials  will also be reviewed. Taught as a private lesson with specialist instructor and requisite  fee. Prerequisite: MUS 462. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
MUS 470 2 hours 
Piano Literature 
A survey of keyboard works chosen from Baroque to contemporary periods.  Lecture, performance, recorded examples and pedagogy techniques are used. Open  to piano majors, minors and others by permission of the instructor. Offered Spring  semester of odd years. 
MUS 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
MUS 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
MTD 131 1 hour 
Introduction to Performing Arts 
An introduction to the performing arts as an outgrowth of the Truth, Beauty and  Goodness of God. The discussion will begin the development of the scholar/artist  who know their work as a continuation of the creative work of the Creator. An  awareness of how Music Theatre and Dance share common philosophical  foundations and create opportunities for the exploration and expression of our  humanity will provide the structure of the course. A requirement for all departmental  freshmen. Offered Fall semester. 
MTD 392 3 hours 
Entrepreneurship in the Arts 
A study of the entrepreneurial aspects of the performing arts industry including  marketing and branding, the recording industry, leading and sustaining arts ventures,  communication, networking, and the overarching business of profit and not for profit  artistic enterprises. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
THR 110A 1 hour 
Theatre Laboratory—Acting 
Credit for participation in theatrical productions. Requires a minimum of 30 hours,  one reflection paper, and peer and instructor assessment. For work in acting— includes audition, casting, rehearsal, creating a role, and performance. Students may  register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does not fulfill major  requirement. May be repeated for five credits total. For theatre majors and minors.  Instructor permission required.  
THR 110P 1 hour 
Theatre Laboratory—Production 
Credit for participation in theatrical productions. Requires a minimum of 30 hours,  one reflection paper, and peer and instructor assessment. For work in costume  and makeup, management, or stagecraft—includes project work and working within  a group. Students may register to participate for 0 credit hours; 0 credit registration does  not fulfill major/minor requirement. May be repeated for five credits total. For theatre  majors and minors. Instructor permission required. 
THR 112 3 hours 
Performing Literature 
This literature and performance course aims to explore the relationship between  literature and theatre with emphasis given to translating analytical decisions into  performance. The main focus of the course is the interaction between the literary  skills of close reading, critical writing, and discussion and the practical, aesthetic,  and symbolic elements of performance. Meets foundational core literature  requirement. Offered Fall semester. 
THR 130 3 hours 
Theatre History I: Antiquity to the Renaissance 
This survey course covers the development of the theatre from its supposed origins  in ancient Greece and Rome to the European Renaissance including its architecture,  production values, acting and directing styles, and the political and social movements  that informed these traditions. Students will engage with selected readings, discussion,  projects, and multimedia presentations. Offered Spring semester. 
THR 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
THR 212 3 hours 
Acting I: Mask and Movement 
Study of the theories and principles of acting as an art, approached through a Christian  perspective of life and the human situation. Practical application of performance  techniques and character development are provided through laboratory theatre  experiences. Corequisite: KIN 200J. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
THR 220 1 hour 
Stage Diction: Fundamentals and Dialect  
Introduces and develops speech techniques for the actor, specifically in the areas  of relaxation, posture and alignment, respiration, phonation, registration,  resonance, and articulation, as well as, study of the fundamental knowledge and  skills required to perform specific and credible dialects for the stage. Offered January  interterm of even years. 
THR 230 3 hours 
Theatre History II: Renaissance to Postmodernism 
A continuation of Theatre History I. This course will continue to explore the  history of theatre including its architecture, production values, acting and directing  styles, and the political and social movements that informed the traditions from the  Renaissance to the present. Students will engage with selected readings, discussion,  projects, and multimedia presentations. Offered Spring semester. 
THR 240 3 hours 
Acting II: Methods and Theories 
The purpose of this course is to explore acting theory and teaching methods of  those whose names are associated with the evolution of the modern theatre. This  course will aid the student in the development of basic performance skills through  the building and refining of audition monologue repertoire. 
THR 241 3 hours 
Stagecraft and Design 
This course is designed as an introduction to the art of theatrical design and  production. It will be taught as a survey course, exploring the many technical  aspects of theatrical production work from the conceptual beginnings, through the  design process, to the final work. Students will gain a basic understanding and  competency in the areas of production research, scenic design, set construction,  costume research and design, make-up design and application, scenic art techniques,  properties, lighting, and sound design through projects and class discussion. Offered  Fall semester of even years. 
THR 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
THR 301 3 hours 
Theories and History of Applied Theatre 
Theories and history of applied theatre covering a wide range of theatre  applications in education, health, community development, and human rights.  Prerequisite THR 112 or permission of instructor. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
THR 330 2 hours 
Audition Techniques 
Students cultivate an understanding of the realities of the marketplace and  necessary techniques for professional acting. The focus is on acquisition of  performance skills. This course will aid the student in the development of basic  performance skills through the building and refining of vocal/monologue audition  repertoire. Offered January interterm of odd years. 
THR 335 3 hours 
Music Theatre: History and Styles 
A practical application course that focuses on learning the ways in which musical  and textual understanding inform the interpretation and performing of acting and  singing techniques in various musical theatre forms from the 1920’s through the  20th century. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
THR 340 3 hours 
Applications in Dramaturgy 
This course is recommended for anyone who loves theatre and wishes to acquire  a more sophisticated understanding of this art form. This course will introduce  students to the profession of dramaturgy which began in 1867 in Germany and took  root in the United States in the late 1960’s. A single course or even an academic  program in this field cannot train a professional dramaturg all at once. A mature  dramaturg emerges gradually through incremental learning and hands-on experience. This study and practical application will provide the student with an  introduction to the discipline. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
THR 345 3 hours 
Stage Management 
This course will provide students with the opportunity to explore their leadership  potential and capabilities through the role of the Stage Manager in a theatrical  context. Students will have the opportunity to interact with SM professionals.  Students will be encouraged to assess their own skills and consider how to best  address improvement. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
THR 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
THR 362 3 hours 
Theatre and the Church  
Explores the biblical foundations of theatre arts following its origin and  development. We will purpose to increase recognition of significant figures in the  field of religious drama, theology, church growth, and worship planning. The course  will give students an introduction to producing and directing for the church,  exploring its uniqueness and challenges. Offered Fall semester of even years.  
THR 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
THR 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Pass/fail only. Offered primarily during Summer. 
THR 402 3 hours 
Contemporary American Theatre 
A study of selected twentieth-century American theatre movements, people and  dramatic literature from 1960 to the present.  
THR 432 3 hours 
Play Directing 
Study of the theories and principles of directing as an art approached through a  Christian perspective of life and the human situation. Emphasis is given to play  analysis with practical application provided through laboratory theatre experience.  Prerequisite: THR 212 or permission of instructor. Offered Fall semester. 
THR 433 1 hour 
Directing II: Application 
The application of the theories and principles of directing explored in THR 432.  Students will apply their learning to the production of a full length play with focus  given to actor/director communication, composition, and execution. Prerequisite:  THR 432. Offered Spring semester. 
THR 440 2 hours 
Musical Theatre Showcase 
Studio course for graduating musical theatre majors. Class-work involves extensive  repertoire from genres of musical theatre appropriate for each individual. Course  will culminate in a showcase performance presented at the end of the semester. 
THR 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
THR 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
THR 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
THR 492 8-16 hours 
Internship 
Professional semester of supervised internship in a work setting related to the  major field of study. Prerequisites: Completion of departmental core and major core courses and approval of the department faculty. Pass/fail only. 