Natural Science 
Science Research Training Program
	



The purpose of the Science Research Training Program is to stimulate students beyond “normal education” with hands-on practical experiences, promote  real-world industrial relationships (careers), and prepare future graduate students. As faculty, students and staff, our goal is to pursue excellence (world  leadership in selected research areas) and thereby stay on the cutting edge of scientific research and thought.  
We encourage scholarly research and crossover interactions between various disciplines, and we promote publications in professional journals by Taylor  University faculty and students. Where possible, we relate science with society and apply science and technology to various mission field needs. Research  activities are carried on quietly and often on a long-range basis, but are essential to leadership and progress. During the summer months, when faculty and  students can devote more time to independent research, student stipends are available for research one-on-one with a faculty member. These projects  include the areas of biology, chemistry, computer science, engineering, environmental science, mathematics, and physics. 
Natural Science Courses
	



NAS 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
NAS 201 3 hours 
Nature of Science 
A lecture and seminar based introduction to the nature of science in three main  areas: life sciences, physical sciences, and earth and space sciences. The course  will examine the scientific paradigm, the nature of science, and the  characteristics of good science applied in these three main areas. The course  will have three laboratory projects examining the nature of science in each area.  Offered Fall or Spring semesters. Meets the foundational core life science, physical  science, or earth science requirement. 
NAS 220 4 hours 
Natural Science Research Methods 
To introduce general science research in the fields of biology, chemistry,  computer science, engineering environmental science, mathematics, and  physics. An overview of selected representative research topics, problem  solving approaches, instrumentation, and analysis techniques. The lab  emphasizes the use of scientific instrumentation and advanced computer  software tools. For students enrolled in pre-college summer experience. Meets any  foundational core lab science requirement. 
NAS 230 2 hours 
Health Education for Behavior Change  
This course prepares students interested in various health care careers to  perform health education in community settings. Topics include disease  prevention, principles of exercise and movement, nutrition, helping skills, and  behavior change theories. After successful completion of course, students are  able to work in the Invitation Diabetes Prevention Program. 
NAS 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
NAS 309 2 hours 
Science Education Methods 
This is a junior-level science education methods course for biology, chemistry, and physics  majors obtaining certification in secondary education. This course covers the philosophy of  science, science educational psychology, the science standards (both national and state),  science curriculum development, classroom management and assessment, laboratory  management and development, and technology and professional development in the sciences.  Prerequisites: EDU 150 and EDU 260. 
NAS 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
NAS 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
NAS 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally, one  hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience. Offered  primarily during Summer. 
NAS 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
NAS 480 1 hour 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with emphasis  on directed readings and discussion. Seminar focuses on the integration of topics from  contemporary science with an emphasis on recent research reports of interdisciplinary  interest. Guest lecturers, faculty, and student reports serve as the method of instruction.  Offered Fall semester. 
NAS 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major. Open  to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
191