ENP 104 3 hours 
Introduction to Engineering and Software Tools 
This course introduces the students to the engineering discipline, providing a hands on overview of the tools they will acquire and use over the course of their major.  These tools include process and methodology tools, analytical tools, software tools,  and hardware tools. A goal of the course is to provide the students with a frame work for their engineering studies along with a practical ‘hands-on’ example of what  engineering might “look like.” This framework should help the student better  understand the role, need, and benefit of each successive course in their major. A  group hardware project will be carried out as part of the course, helping to engage  the students’ learning and interest, and re-enforcing the concepts taught in class.  One hour of lecture and three hours of lab. Offered January interterm. Prerequisite: PHY  211. 
ENP 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
ENP 231 4 hours 
Introduction to Electric Circuits 
First course in electric circuits, where DC, time-dependent, and AC circuits are  each introduced. Network analysis, network reduction techniques, time-domain  solutions to simple 1st and 2nd order circuits, and steady-state analysis of  sinusoidally excited circuits are each developed. Weekly lab introduces  breadboarding, debugging, and testing of basic electric and electronic circuits using  common test equipment. An introduction and use of basic electronic devices such  as op-amps, the Shockley diode and BJT or MOSFET transistors is also included.  An emphasis is placed on SPICE circuit simulation throughout the semester. A  course project introduces students to ECAD software, where they create, build,  and test a custom printed circuit board (PCB) circuit. Prerequisites: PHY 212 and  ENP 104, or permission of instructor. Offered Fall semester. 
ENP 252 4 hours 
Principles of Engineering 
The course focuses on the mathematical modeling and analysis of lumped-element  physical systems—translational and rotational mechanical systems, electrical  systems, heat transfer systems, and fluid systems. Unifying concepts of flow, effort,  and impedance are emphasized, along with the use of transfer function descriptions,  frequency domain analysis, and Laplace Transform analysis. Labs focus on modeling  and simulation, design of experiments, directed design process, and software skill  development, including MATLAB and Simulink. Prerequisite: ENP 231. Corequiste:  MAT 251. Offered Spring semester. 
ENP 261 3 hours 
Digital Systems Design 
Digital Systems are explored, including combinational (e.g., multiplexors and  decoders) and sequential (e.g., flip-flops and registers) logic. Circuit minimization techniques such as Boolean algebra and Karnaugh maps are examined. Mealy and  Moore finite state machines will be developed to model systems. Designs will  culminate in projects that simulate circuits with a hardware description language  and then synthesized on an FPGA. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
ENP 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
ENP 301 3 hours 
Statics 
This course is a one-semester introduction to the statics of particles and rigid  bodies. Topics include: forces, moments, equilibrium, and structures in equilibrium.  Course makes applications to engineering and uses software tools for engineering  mechanics. Prerequisites: PHY 211 and MAT 230. Offered Fall semester. 
ENP 302 3 hours 
Strength of Materials 
Course investigates the fundamentals of the mechanics and strength of materials.  Topics covered include stress-strain relationships, Mohr's circle, axial loading,  torsion, beam loading, and linear buckling. Prerequisite: ENP 301. Offered Spring  semester of even years. 
ENP 303 3 hours 
Dynamics 
This course covers the basic principles of dynamic mechanical systems, as derived  from Newtonian mechanics. The main topics covered include kinematics of  particles, kinetics of particles (using both force and energy/momentum methods),  kinetics of systems of particles, kinematics of rigid bodies, and 2-D kinetics (plane  motion) of rigid bodies (using both force and energy/momentum methods).  Prerequisite: ENP 301. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
ENP 321 2 hours 
Applied Electromagnetics 
The course considers the application and technology of electromagnetic field  theory to computing and communications systems. Topics may include wave  propagation, transmission lines, fiber optics, high frequency communication networks, antennas, and satellite communications. Prerequisites: ENP 252, MAT 251,  and ENP 231. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
ENP 332 4 hours 
Control Systems 
This is an introductory course in Signals, Systems and Controls. A selection of  topics is chosen from a conventional two-course sequence of "Signals and Systems"  and "Automatic Control". Mathematical tools for studying linear time invariant  (LTI) continuous time systems are developed. These include describing and  analyzing LTI systems according to their 1) differential equation, 2) impulse  response, 3) state-space representation, and 4) frequency response representation.  Transform methods including Fourier series, Fourier Transform, and Laplace  Transform are also developed as needed. The Controls portion of the course  includes time-domain transient response, steady-state response, and stability tests.  Frequency domain analysis such as root-locus and Nyquist stability are also  introduced. Prerequisites: ENP 252 and MAT 251. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
ENP 341 4 hours 
Microcomputer Interfacing 
Course develops the student’s ability to design, build and test embedded systems.  Hardware architecture and software programming of microcontrollers and other  embedded system devices are studied. Operation and use of LCDs, A to D and D  to A converters, keypads and other interface devices are investigated. Serial  communication through 12C, OneWire, USB and RS232 are used. In addition,  networking and RF techniques and protocols are studied. Prerequisite: ENP 231 or  permission of instructor. Offered Fall semester of even years. 
ENP 351 3 hours 
Engineering Thermodynamics 
Course develops engineering thermodynamics including use of the first and second  law, phase diagrams, properties, heat transfer, second law consequences, power  and refrigeration cycles as well as other selected topics. Prerequisites: ENP 252, MAT  251, and PHY 212. Offered Fall semester. 
ENP 352 3 hours 
Materials Science 
The structure, processing, and properties of engineering materials are studied with  an emphasis on metallic systems. This includes crystal structure, defects, diffusion,  phase transformations, deformation mechanisms, strength, and fracture toughness.  Also covered are material selection, linear elastic fracture mechanics, and  dislocation theory. Prerequisite: ENP 252. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
ENP 355 3 hours 
Fluid Mechanics and Water Flow 
An introduction to the basic properties of fluids in motion. Topics include:  Differential fluid equations, streamlines, continuity, energy and linear angular  momentum, incompressible viscous flow, potential flow, Navier-Stokes equations,  open channel flow, pipe flow, laminar and turbulent boundary layers. Prerequisite:  ENP 252. Corequisite: MAT 251. Offered Fall semester. 
ENP 357 3 hours 
Heat Transfer 
Course investigates the fundamentals of heat transfer and applies those  fundamentals to engineering applications. Topics covered include modeling of  conduction, convection, radiation, and mixed mode heat transfer problems.  Course covers both steady state and transient response. Prerequisites: ENP 252,  ENP 351, and ENP 355. Offered Spring semester.  
ENP 359 2 hours 
Mechanical Engineering Laboratory 
In this course, laboratory experiments reinforce key concepts encountered in  mechanical engineering. Topics include materials science, fluid mechanics,  thermodynamics, heat transfer, dynamics, and mechanics of materials. Students  actively participate in the configuration of sensors and build data acquisition  programs as they develop familiarity with various aspects of experimental  measurements. Laboratory exercises include elements of data analysis, assessment  of experimental uncertainty, and technical writing. Prerequisite: ENP 252. Offered Fall  semester of even years. 
ENP 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
ENP 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
ENP 392 2-4 hours 
Junior Engineering Project 
In the context of completing an engineering project, students learn and practice:  elements of the design process, the ability to be innovative and think creatively, the  ability to acquire new knowledge and skills, the ability to solve engineering  problems, the application of analytical and software tools to engineering problems,  and the ability to communicate effectively. Focus on the "thoughtful design process"  is particularly emphasized. Prerequisite: ENP 252. Offered Spring semesters. 
ENP 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum  experience. Practicum must involve a significant engineering work experience and  preference is given to an experience away from the Taylor campus. Offered primarily  during Summer. Prerequisite: ENP 252 and junior or senior status. 
ENP 394 1-4 hours 
Advanced Engineering Project 
Students complete an open-ended project, laboratory experiment or research  project. The individual project depends on student and faculty interest. Many  projects are externally funded. Specific learning outcomes vary depending on  faculty, student, and project selected. Prerequisite: ENP 252. 
ENP 405 1 hour 
Engineering Ethics 
Course introduces students to the ethical requirements of the engineering  profession and the ethical issues associated with living in a technological intense  digital society. Through the course, students should: appreciate the ethical use of  computers and dangers of computer misuses, have knowledge of professional codes  of ethics, be aware of the impact of technology on society, have an appreciation for  the needs of society and how engineering can meet those needs, and begin  developing an understanding of how their Christian faith integrates with their  engineering practice. Prerequisite: ENP 492. Offered Spring semester. 
ENP 431 4 hours 
Advanced Electronics and Microcircuits 
Modeling and analysis of basic electronic devices—primarily diodes and transistors.  Applications are made to various analog and digital circuits, including single and multi stage amplifiers. Prerequisites: ENP 231 and ENP 252. Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
ENP 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
ENP 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
ENP 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
ENP 491 1 hour 
Review of the Fundamentals of Engineering 
Course reviews the fundamentals of engineering and prepares students to enter  the engineering profession. Depending on students’ incoming ability, the course  will review subjects from chemistry, computers, dynamics, electric circuits,  engineering economics, ethics, fluid mechanics, materials science, mathematics,  mechanics of materials, statics, and thermodynamics. Prerequisite: Senior status.  Offered Spring semester. 
ENP 492 2 hours 
Engineering Senior Capstone I 
Course is the first of a three-course culminating experience which prepares  students for engineering practice through a major design experience based on the  knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating engineering  standards and realistic constraints that include most of the following considerations:  economic, environmental, sustainability, manufacturability, ethical, health and safety,  social and political. Prerequisite: Senior status. Offered Fall semester. 
ENP 493 3 hours 
Engineering Senior Capstone II 
Course is the second of a three-course culminating experience which prepares  students for engineering practice through a major design experience based on the  knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating engineering  standards and realistic constraints that include most of the following considerations:  economic, environmental, sustainability, manufacturability, ethical, health and safety,  social and political. Course also prepares students to serve God and humanity  through active service to their family, church, employer and global community.  Prerequisite: ENP 492. Offered January interterm. 
ENP 494 1 hour 
Engineering Senior Capstone III 
Course is the third of a three-course culminating experience which prepares  students for engineering practice through a major design experience based on the  knowledge and skills acquired in earlier course work and incorporating engineering  standards and realistic constraints that include most of the following considerations:  economic, environmental, sustainability, manufacturability, ethical, health and safety,  social and political. Course focuses mainly on documenting and presenting work  completed in the first two courses of the capstone experience. Prerequisite: ENP  493. Offered Spring semester. 
PHY 120 4 hours 
Renewable Energy Principles 
Intended for non-science majors. The continuum of energy use drives society to  consider renewable and sustainable resource models based on physical principles,  chemistry, and Earth science while connecting to theology and the "big picture" of  the universe. Three hours of lecture and two hours of lab (focusing on renewable energy)  each week. Meets foundational core physical science requirements.  
PHY 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
PHY 201 3-4 hours 
Introductory Astronomy 
A descriptive course about the solar system, stars and stellar evolution, and galaxies  and the universe. Recent findings of space exploration and radio astronomy are  included. Telescopes are provided for viewing sessions. Two or three hours of  lecture and two hours of lab. Physics majors wishing to take PHY 201 for elective credit  must take the “majors-only” lab section that is offered intermittently. Students interested  in this option should consult with the department chair to determine availability of this  special lab section. Students taking PHY 201 for elective credit should also check to ensure  that they maintain the required minimum number of upper-division credit hours. Meets  foundational core earth science requirement.  
PHY 203 4 hours 
General Physics I 
A study of mechanics, thermodynamics, waves and sound, electricity, magnetism,  and optics. Assumes mathematics at the algebra-trigonometry level. For majors  that do not require a calculus-based treatment of physics. Meets foundational core physical science requirement. Three hours of lecture and two hours of lab. Offered  annually. 
PHY 204 4 hours 
General Physics II 
See PHY 203. 
PHY 211 4-5 hours 
University Physics I 
A calculus-based study of mechanics, waves and sound, electricity and magnetism,  optics, fluids, and the structure of matter. The 4 hour course consists of four hours of  lecture (for three-quarters of the term) and two hours of lab (for the entire term). The  five-hour version also incorporates the study of thermodynamics and consists of four hours  of lectures and two hours of lab. Meets foundational core physical science requirement.  Corequisite: MAT 146 or MAT 151. Offered annually. 
PHY 212 5 hours 
University Physics II 
Four hours of lecture and two hours of lab. See PHY 211. Prerequisite: PHY 211.  Corequisite: MAT 230. 
PHY 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
PHY 310 3 hours 
Modern Physics 
An introduction to modern physics, including special relativity, quantum effects of  radiation and particles, and elementary particles. Three hours of lecture per week.  Prerequisites: PHY 211 and PHY 212. Offered Fall semester. 
PHY 311 4 hours 
Modern Physics 
An introduction to modern physics, including special relativity, quantum effects of  radiation and particles, atomic structure, and elementary particles. Three hours of  lecture and two hours of lab per week. Prerequisites: PHY 211 and PHY 212. Offered  Fall semester. 
PHY 313 2 hours 
Nuclear Radiation Experimental Methods 
A study of nuclear radiation and detection and experimental methods of measuring  nuclear radiation. One hour of lecture and two hours of lab per week. Prerequisites:  PHY 211 and PHY 212. Offered intermittently. 
PHY 321 3 hours 
Electricity and Magnetism 
The vector field approach to electromagnetic theory. Includes electrostatics,  magnetostatics, induction, dielectric and magnetic materials, and Maxwell’s  equations. Co-requisites: MAT 251 and PHY 341. Prerequisites: PHY 211 and PHY 212.  Offered Fall semester of even years. 
PHY 322 4 hours 
Waves and Physical Optics 
Applications of Maxwell’s equations, including electromagnetic waves, wave guides,  diffraction, and Fourier optics. Three hours of lecture and three hours of lab per week. Prerequisites: PHY 211, PHY 212, and PHY 321. Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
PHY 330 1-2 hours 
Advanced Lab 
Students complete an open-ended project, laboratory experiment or research  project. The individual project depends on student and faculty interests. Specific  learning outcomes vary depending on faculty, student and project selected.  Prerequisites: ENP 252 or ENP 301 or PHY 311 and junior classification. Offered as  needed for physics and engineering physics majors. 
PHY 341 3 hours 
Math Methods in Physics and Engineering 
An application of analytical and computational methods to various mathematical  topics, including linear algebra, matrices, eigenequations, vector field theory, partial  differential equations, Fourier series and transforms, orthogonal functions, and  complex analysis. Use of a computer application such as MATLAB is required.  Prerequisite: PHY 212. Corequisite: MAT 251. Offered Spring semester. 
PHY 342 3 hours 
Analytical Mechanics 
A formal treatment of mechanics covering harmonic motion, the translation and  rotation of rigid bodies, non-inertial reference frames, and gravitation. The course  concludes with the Hamiltonian and Lagrangian formulations of mechanics.  Prerequisites: PHY 211, PHY 212, and PHY 341. Offered Spring semester of even years. 
PHY 350 4 hours 
Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics 
Develops thermal physics and statistical mechanics, with application to solid state  physics. In the thermal physics portion of the course, the three laws of  thermodynamics are developed and applied to problems. In the statistical  mechanics portion, the development of the partition function is accomplished  through the microcanonical formalism. The partition function is then applied to  various problems, such as: Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac statistics, Bose-Einstein  condensation, blackbody radiation, and the behavior of electrons and phonons in  solid materials. Prerequisite: PHY 341.  
PHY 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
PHY 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
PHY 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
PHY 412 3 hours 
Quantum Mechanics 
A quantum mechanical treatment of the free particle, harmonic oscillator and  hydrogen atom. Includes creation and annihilation operators and an introduction  to angular momentum. Prerequisites: PHY 211, PHY 212, PHY 311 and PHY 341.  Offered Spring semester of odd years. 
PHY 413 2 hours 
Quantum Mechanics II 
An in-depth treatment of several advanced topics in quantum mechanics. Topics  covered include spin, angular momentum, three-dimensional problems, matrix  mechanics, the density matrix, and perturbation theory. Prerequisite: PHY 412.  Offered Fall semester of odd years. 
PHY 441 3 hours 
Advanced Mathematical Methods in Physics 
Application of analytical and computational methods to various advanced  mathematical topics in physics, such as: group theory, complex analysis, partial  differential equations, Green’s functions, the Gamma function, Bessel functions,  Legendre functions, and Fourier analysis. Prerequisite: PHY 341. Offered Fall semester  of even years. 
PHY 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. 
PHY 480 1-4 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion.  
PHY 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
PHY 491 1 hour 
Preparation for the Physics GRE 
A review of topics covered in the undergraduate physics curriculum. The purpose  of the course is to help students prepare for the GRE Subject Test in Physics. Topics  reviewed include: Classical Mechanics (including the Lagrangian formalism), Modern  Physics (including Quantum Mechanics and Special Relativity), Electricity and Magnetism, Optics, Thermodynamics, and Electronics. Prerequisite: junior or senior status. 
PHY 493 3 hours 
Physics Senior Capstone 
A capstone course in which each senior’s technical, analytical, and laboratory skills,  along with coursework knowledge, are applied to an intensive physics or  engineering project. Three weeks are devoted to the completion of the project,  and the remainder of the term is spent off-campus, strengthening interpersonal  relationships, integrating faith and learning, and examining topics critical to post baccalaureate life. Prerequisite: Senior status. 