PSY 100 3 hours 
Introductory Psychology 
An introduction to the subject matter and methods of psychology. Topics on  human development, personality, learning, sensation, perception, motivation,  emotion, mental health and social psychology are considered. Meets foundational  core general social science requirement. 
PSY 105 3 hours 
Foundations and Applications of Psychology 
An exploration of worldviews and philosophical views in psychology, current  perspectives and ethical issues in psychology, and models of integration of psychology  and Christianity. Self-reflection and development of a sense of calling/vocation in  psychology are explored as the breadth and depth of the field are introduced. Does  not meet a foundational core requirement. Prerequisite: PSY 100 or instructor’s permission. 
PSY 125 2 hours 
Intrapersonal Psychology 
The study of how to process the emotional dynamics of anger, guilt, anxiety and  grief while becoming mature, emotionally integrated social beings. 
PSY 170 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
PSY 210 2 hours 
Ethics in Psychology 
A study of various models of ethics, with a desire to develop a Christian model. The  Christian model is then applied to various issues in counseling, psychopathology,  research, human development, law, and educational psychology. Prerequisite: PSY 100. 
PSY 220 3 hours 
Sport Psychology 
This course investigates the interpersonal, societal, and cultural variables that  surround athletics and sports in our contemporary culture. Topics include  personality variables of the successful athlete; anxiety and arousal in sports, as well  as strategies to assist in the control of these states; motivation; casual attributions  for success and failure in athletes and coaches; the role of the direct and indirect  contexts of sports and competition; and exercise psychology. Prerequisite: PSY 100. 
PSY 240 3 hours 
Child Psychology 
This course deals with the subject matter of developmental psychology (cognitive,  physical, and socio-emotional development) and also applies the subject matter to  those actively working with children, including parents, teachers, coaches, etc.  Meets foundational core general social science requirement.  
PSY 250 3 hours 
Life Span Development 
This course is designed to provide a general overview of the developmental process  in humans from conception through death and dying. Included is attention to the  physical, cognitive psychosocial and spiritual developments. Meets foundational core general social science requirement. 
PSY 251 1 hour 
Life Span Development: Adolescence, Adulthood, and Aging
This course is designed to provide a general overview of the developmental processes  in humans from adolescence through, adulthood, aging and the dying process. Included  is attention to the physical, cognitive, psychosocial and spiritual developments.  Intended for majors and non-majors (e.g., Social Work, Christian Ministries, Exercise Science)  who have taken Child Psychology (PSY 240) or Child and Adolescent Psychology (PSY 350)  but need a life span perspective as required by their program or as recommended for their  future graduate school plans. The class meets with PSY 250 for the second half of the  semester. Does not meet a foundational core requirement. Prerequisite: PSY 240 or PSY 350. 
PSY 260 3 hours 
Applied Psychology 
An introduction to practical uses and applications of psychology. Topics cover a variety  of fields of psychology (e.g., industrial/organizational psychology, educational psychology,  clinical/counseling psychology) and applications within each field with different  psychological degrees, developing a career identity that intersects with values and beliefs. 
PSY 270 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering. 
PSY 272 3 hours 
Research Methods in Psychology 
Research methods in psychology are studied and critiqued. Students are involved  in practical research and writing assignments. Prerequisite: PSY 100. 
PSY 275 3 hours 
Introductory Statistics 
An introduction to descriptive and inferential statistics used in research. Students  will be involved in the computation, application, and interpretation of various  elementary statistics. 
PSY 280 3 hours 
Introduction to Autism Spectrum Disorders 
This course will help students develop an understanding of the social, behavioral, and  developmental issues for individuals with ASD across the life span. After the course,  students will know and understand the etiology, symptoms, and diagnostic criteria of  Autism Spectrum Disorder.  
PSY 281 3 hours 
Applied Behavior Analysis and Autism Treatments  
The course focuses on understanding autism spectrum disorders through the life span.  Diagnostic criteria, identification, assessment, and the variety of treatment and  interventions used with individuals with autism spectrum disorders are reviewed.  
PSY 300 3 hours 
Abnormal Psychology 
A study of the nature, causes, and treatment of maladaptive behavior, with special  consideration given to the symptoms and dynamics of psychological disorders.  Prerequisite: PSY 100 or instructor’s permission. 
PSY 305 3 hours 
Behavior Problems of Children and Adolescents 
A study of major behavioral disorders, with emphasis on empirical research and  clinical description, relative to etiology, assessment, prognosis, and treatment.  Cultural influences on child and adolescent behavioral disorders will also be  explored. Prerequisite: PSY 240 or PSY 250 or PSY 350. 
PSY 313 3 hours 
Statistics for Behavioral Sciences 
The major concepts covered in the class will be descriptive statistics, basic  probability theory, and inferential statistics. Demonstrations of Microsoft Excel  competency will be assigned for each segment of the class. This course is offered  through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
PSY 317 3 hours 
Psychology of Learning 
In this course, students will become acquainted with the major theories of the  psychology of learning, along with basic biblical principles about humanity. Through  personal investigation, observation, and basic research, students will learn to  recognize and apply the theories of psychology of learning to their own lives as well  as in the lives of others. This course is offered through Taylor University Online (TUO).  
PSY 320 3 hours 
Multicultural Psychology 
An introduction to the psychological development of differences in worldviews;  cultural identity development; discrimination & racism; acculturation processes, and  building multicultural skills and competence. The course provides students an  opportunity to begin to build knowledge, skill, and awareness in serving, working,  and/or being with individuals of different ethnic and cultural groups from a  psychological and Christian worldview. The goal of this course is to facilitate self reflection and self-growth among participants, preparing them to more critically,  actively, and effectively participate in a diverse environment. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and PSY 272 or instructor’s permission. 
PSY 321 3 hours 
Social Psychology 
A study of how the thought, feeling, or behavior of individuals is influenced by the  actual, imagined, or implied presence of others. Topics include social perception,  conformity prejudice, aggression, attitudes and their change, affiliation, and altruism.  Prerequisites: PSY 100 and PSY 272 or instructor’s permission. 
PSY 325 1 hour 
Career and Vocational Issues Seminar 
A career and vocational seminar with an emphasis on reading and discussion.  Prerequisites: PSY 100 and PSY 272; junior standing required. 
PSY 331 3 hours 
Biblical Psychology 
A survey of biblical teaching on the nature of the person, its relationship to  emotional and behavioral problems, and solutions to those problems.  
PSY 340 3 hours 
Adolescent Psychology 
This course deals with the problems of adolescent development and resulting  issues, including peer pressure and conformity, adult-adolescent conflicts, cognitive  changes, adjustments to physical changes, struggles with identity, etc.  Contemporary issues, including drug and alcohol use, eating disorders, and teen  sexuality are also discussed. The focus is on a practical application of research  literature with an integration of biblical principles. Meets foundational core general  social science requirement.  
PSY 341 3 hours 
Neuroscience and the Soul 
This course is a study of the human brain and the question of the existence of a  soul or immaterial mind. Content to be studied will include areas of the brain  related to this question of the existence of the soul. The course will study leading  researchers in neuroscience as well as key experiments examining the issue.  Parallel to this search on neuroscience, the class will also examine some philosophy,  theology, and the biblical content in order to keep the larger question of the  immortal soul in view.  
PSY 345 3 hours 
Applied Research 
This lab experience allows students to apply their research and statistical skills on  meaningful service learning projects. Prerequisite: PSY 272; Prerequisite or Corequisite:  PSY 275. 
PSY 350 3 hours 
Child and Adolescent Psychology 
This course surveys the characteristics of growth and development of children  through adolescence, including physical, psychological, social, cognitive, and  emotional aspects. School-related contemporary issues such as child abuse, drug  and alcohol use, peer pressure, and teenage sexuality are discussed. Meets  foundational core general social science requirement.  
PSY 357 3 hours 
Peace, Reconciliation, and Justice 
This course provides a basic introduction to the role of psychology in helping to  establish peaceful societies around the world. It will seek to integrate a Christian  worldview with current trends in peacemaking, including topics such as forgiveness,  reconciliation, and social justice. Attention will be given to ethnopolitical conflicts  from a multi-disciplinary perspective. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and PSY 272 or  instructor’s permission. 
PSY 360 1-4 hours 
Independent Study 
An individualized, directed study involving a specified topic.  
PSY 370 1-4 hours 
Selected Topics 
A course offered on a subject of interest but not listed as a regular course offering.  
PSY 375 3 hours 
Loss and Bereavement 
This course examines the journey through loss and grief and includes not only  death-related bereavement but also psychological, physical, developmental, and  situational losses that occur throughout the life. While the course is designed with  a systemic perspective, a more general grieving paradigm is also presented through  current theories and research. Students have the opportunity to practice helpful  responses to loss and learn how to facilitate healthy adaptation to change. The role  of culture in the experience of loss and grief is explored. Prerequisite: PSY 100 or  instructor’s permission. 
PSY 380 3 hours 
Ethical and Professional Issues in Autism Intervention Seminar
This course covers specific issues related to work in autism related fields. Students  are exposed to legislation, rights, and ethical issues related to working with individuals  with autism across the life span. At the completion of the course, all students must  pass the RBT exam to be certified as a Registered Behavior Technician. Prerequisites:  PSY 280 and PSY 281. 
PSY 381 3 hours 
Single Subject Research and Behavioral Assessment  
This course will introduce students to methods of conducting single subject designs  for behavioral intervention. Students will also learn the salient features of common  single subject designs as well as the advantages and disadvantages of these  methodologies. Students will learn to visually inspect data and make treatment  decisions regarding intervention effectiveness. Additionally, students will learn how to  review published research based on single subject methods and will have opportunities  to explore how these methods can be used to answer applied and basic science  research questions and how results inform therapeutic intervention choices. 
PSY 382 3 hours 
Sensation and Perception  
Examination of how observers perceive their environment through sensory  information; emphasis on major sensory systems including vision, audition, spatial  orientation, touch, taste, and olfaction. In addition, the integration of these sensory  systems and subjective experience will be explored.  
PSY 390 3 hours 
Christian Marriage 
A practical and applied course that integrates psychological literature and biblical  teaching in the subject areas of the marriage relationship. These areas include  marriage foundations, dating and engagement, premarital sexual behavior,  singleness, mate selection, marriage success and satisfaction, love and infatuation,  marriage roles, communication and conflict and divorce. 
PSY 393 1-4 hours 
Practicum 
Supervised learning involving a first-hand field experience or a project. Generally,  one hour of credit is awarded for a minimum of 40 hours of practicum experience.  Offered primarily during Summer. 
PSY 395 3 hours 
Health Psychology 
This course provides an overview of the research and practice of psychology as  applied to health and health systems. Topics include the biopsychosocial model,  personality and psychological issues related to health behaviors, stress and coping,  patient-provider relationships, use of health services, pain management, chronic  illness, advancing and terminal illness, heart disease, hypertension, stroke, diabetes,  psychoneuroimmunology, aids, cancer and arthritis. Students also explore  psychological issues related to personal health behavior change. 
PSY 400 3 hours 
Theories of Personality 
A study of the major current systematic psychological theories of personality.  Consideration is given to their underlying assumptions and usefulness for research  and therapeutic practice. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and three additional hours in  psychology or social work. 
PSY 410 3 hours 
Motivation 
This course is designed to provide a theoretical, Christian, practical understanding  of motivation. Motivation is addressed by looking at its historical development and  models of volition, affection, intellect, and biology. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and six  additional hours in psychology or instructor’s permission. 
PSY 411 3 hours 
Learning: Theory and Application 
The study of major learning theories and their application to advertising, education,  counseling, and daily problems of life. Prerequisite: PSY 100. 
PSY 420 3 hours 
Cognition 
The scientific study of the cognitive functions of memory, attention, perception,  learning styles, imagery, decision making, problem solving, and metacognition, with  application for implementing this information. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and six  additional hours in psychology.  
PSY 422 3 hours 
Psychological Testing 
A study of the principles of psychological testing, considering both the theoretical  and practical foundations underlying the construction, use, and interpretation of  various psychometric instruments. The student is given opportunity to administer,  score, and interpret selected instruments. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and PSY 275.  
PSY 425 3 hours 
Industrial-Organizational Psychology 
This course is designed to provide an introduction to applying psychological  principles, theory, and research to the work environment. Topics include hiring,  job fit, performance, assessment, training, motivation, stress, leadership, teams, and  interpersonal relationships. Students will complete an applied project examining  and evaluating the hiring process and performance evaluation of an organizational  job. Prerequisite: PSY 100 or instructor’s permission.  
PSY 435 3 hours 
Applied Advanced Psychological Statistics 
The course provides students with knowledge of statistical methods, how to  effectively use them in real world settings doing meaningful projects and when to  use the methods based on the data and research design that is utilized. The SPSS  statistical package is integrated into the structure of the course content that  includes Repeating Measures ANOVA; multiple comparison tests; Two-Way and  Three-Way ANOVA Independent groups; One-Way and Two-Way ANCOVA;  Simple and Multiple Regression; One-Way, Two-Way, and Mixed factors  MANOVA; Point Biserial Correlation; statistics for validity and reliability; Path  Analysis; and effect sizes that these statistics tests. Prerequisite: PSY 275.  
PSY 441 3 hours 
Physiological Psychology 
A study of the neurophysiology underlying human behavior. Emphasis is given to  central nervous system mechanisms that mediate sensation, consciousness,  learning, motivation, and emotional behavior.  
PSY 450 1-4 hours 
Directed Research 
Investigative learning involving closely directed research and the use of such facilities  as the library or laboratory. Prerequisites: PSY 100 and PSY 272. 
PSY 461 3 hours 
Fundamentals of Counseling 
An analysis of the major theories and approaches to counseling, correlating them  with counterpart theories of personality and learning. Each major theory is dealt  with in the light of biblical revelation. As a result, the student is encouraged to  formulate a tentative theory of counseling consistent with biblical truth.  Prerequisites: PSY 100 or instructor’s permission. 
PSY 462 3 hours 
Counseling Skills 
This course introduces and provides foundational communication and interpersonal  counseling skills from therapeutic listening and empathy to interviewing skills. It is  experiential and aimed at helping students develop a foundation of strong, effective  therapeutic people helping skills. 
PSY 480 3 hours 
Seminar 
A limited-enrollment course designed especially for upper-class majors with  emphasis on directed readings and discussion. The content of the readings and  discussions will focus on integrative material in the discipline, as well as contemporary  issues confronting not only professional psychologists, but lay persons as well. Offered  January interterm. 
PSY 490 1-2 hours 
Honors 
Individualized study or research of an advanced topic within a student’s major.  Open to students with at least a 3.00 GPA in the major field. 
PSY 495 3 hours 
Integration of Psychology and Christianity 
An examination of the relationship between psychology and Christian beliefs about  human nature. Topics involve the presuppositions of modern psychology, the  Christian view of the person, and tension areas between psychology and theology.  Prerequisites: PSY 100 and completion of 38 total hours in the major. 